
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Dirtr,
QENERAL

A/44/020
5 December 1989

ORIQINALI ENOLISH

Forty-fourth marion
Agenda item 114

ENHANCINQ THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRINCIPLE OF PERIODIC
AND QENUINE ELECTIONS

-1 Mr. Wilfried QROLIQ (Federal Republic of Qermany)

I . INTRODUCTION

89-31577 0283P (I!) / . . .

I e .

1. At it8 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Aaaembly, on the
recommendation of the Qeneral Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled “Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine
elections” snd to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee conrideced the item jointly with items 95, 98, 106, 107, 108,
114 and 115 at its 36th to 43rd, SOth, 54th and 56th meetinga,  on R, 9, 10, 13, 14,
15, 21, 24 and 27 November 1959. An account of the Committee’s discussion is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/44/SR.36-43,  50, 54 and 56).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents t

(a) Note by the Secretary-Genera: on enhancing the effectiveness of the
principle of periodic and genuine electLons (A/44/454 and Corr.1);

(b) Lstter dated 26 April 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Panama to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral (A/44/254 S/20607).

4. At the 36th meeting, on 8 November, the Under-Secretary-Gellrral for Human
Rights made an introductory statement (see AX.31441SR.36).



A/44/020
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. DfaPtCa3/4-
fn A/C.3/44/L.72

5. At the 50th meeting, on 21 November, the representative of the United States
of America, on behalf of 1 Bel&~aL  Co-
Rics. the ViEISFrancel (hxmmw FaQQTal  W of,

as, 1-1~.
and #&RR introduced a draft

resolution (A/C.3/44/L.59) entitled “Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle
of periodic and genuine elections”. Subsequently, m and the lJnion

t So- joined in rponsoring the draft resolution.

6. In introducing the draft resolution, the rspreaentative of the United Statea
of America orally revised it as follows:

(a) The seventh preambular paragraph, which read:

‘I- that there is no single political aystem or electoral method
which is equally suited to all nations and their people, and that national
decisions with respect to implementing the principle of periodic and genuine
elections legitimately lead to alternative approaches which have different
advantages and merits, ”

was revised to read:

“v that there is no single political aystem or electoral method
which is equally suited to all nations and their people,“t

(b) Operative paragraph 4, which read:

“R-9 that the international community’s efforts to enhance the
effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections should not
call iuto question each State’s right freely to choose and develop its
political, social, economic and cultural systems , whether or not they conform
to the preferences of other States;”

was revised to read:

“m that the international community’s efforts to enhance the
effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections should not
call into question each State’s sovereign right freely to choose and develop
ita political, social, economic anti cultural systems,  whether or not they
conform to the preferences of other Stat.es;”

(c) Operative paragraph 9, which read:

“Calls w the ConuAssion on Human Rights, at its forty-sixth session,
to continue its consideration of appropriate ways and means of enhancing the

/ . . .



A/44/020
English
Page 3

effectiveners  of th6 principle of prrfodfc and genuine electionr, and to
report to the general Assembly at its forty-fifth session, through the
Economic and Social Councilmen

was revised to read:

@I- the Commission on Human Rights, at it6 forty-sixth session,
to continue itr consideration of appropriate waya  and means of enhancing the
6ffectivonerF of the principle of periodic and genuine elections in the
context of full respect for the aovereiqnty of Member States, and to report to
thr General A.rsumbly at its forty-fifth session, through the Economic and
Social CovncilJ",

7. At th6 54th me6ting, on 24 Nov6mb6rr th6 r6pr686ntativ6 of Ca.m6roon,  on b6half
of W-Cuba.  dhana, the s
Vb and ZinWam introducrd am6ndm6ntr  to draft r66olution
A/C.3/44/L.59, a s  o r a l l y  revir6d, which w6r6 COntain6d in dOCUm6nt A/C.3/44/L.72
and r6ad as follows:

(a) "Op6rativs  paragraph 3 should b6 am6nd6d  to r6ad a8 followra

‘w that d6termining  the will of the people  requirar an
6lectoral procrsa that prOvid6a  an equal opportunity for all citir6nr to
b6como candidat6r and put forward their political vi6ws, individually and
in co-operation with Other8 , within constitutional and national
16gislationJ'

(b) "D616t6 oprrativ6 paragraph 8 and renumber th6 r6m6ining paragraphs
accordingly."

8. Also at the ram6 merting, following a stat6msnt by th6 Chairman, the Committee
decided to postpon6 COnsider6tiOn  of draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.59,  aa orally
revis6d,  and th6 amendment6 ther6to (A/C.3/44/L.72)  until 27 November (166
A/C.3/44/SR.54).

9. At th6 56th meeting, on 27 Novlmber, the r6pr686ntatiV6 Of th6 Unit6d States,
on behalf of the co-sponsors of draft r6solution A/C.3/44/L.59 d6cid6d  not to
0~~086 the propoeed amsndm6ntr (A/C.3/44/L.72).

10. At th6 same mseting, th6 Committe6 adopted draft r6solution  A/C.3;44/L.59,  as
orally revised and amended, without a vot6 (6e6 para. 17, draft re8OlUtiOn I).

11. Stat6m6ntS after the vot6 wet6 made by the repr666ntativ68 of th6 United
States of America, Cameroon, the N6th6rlandS and Morocco (166 A/C!.3/44/SR.56).

B. w resolutjpgb/C,3/44/~.6O/R6v,J

12. At tha 50th m66ting,  on 21 NOV6mbOrr the r6pr686ntativ6  of Cuba, on behalf of
‘. , tic s th6 I;lso People 5

wa th6 *an && Jmva. m the U.&a&

/ . . .



A/44/020
Engli6h
Pagr 4

of ) and m, introduced a revised draft
r6rolution (A/C.3/44/L.60/Rev.l),  6ntitl6d "R6Sp6Ct for the principl6s of national
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of Stat68 in their
616CtOral  prOC68868".

13. At the 56th mreting, on 27 Novmb6r, the r6presentative  of Cuba, Orally
revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) The third preambular paragraph, which read:

"v its resolution 2625 (Xxv) of 24 October 1970, by which it
prOCl6im6d  th6 Declaration on PrinCipl68 Of Int6rnatiOnal Law COnC6rning
Friendly R6latfOnS and Co-operation 6mong States in aCCOrdanC6 with the
Charter of the United Nations,"

was revised to read:

'*m its resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, by which it
prOClaim6d the D6ClaratiOn  on Principles of International Law concerning
Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the
Chart= of the United Nations,"J

(b) The sevcrnth preambular paragraph, which read:

I*- that resp6ct for the principles of national sov6reignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of any Stat6 constitut6s  a
fundamental basis for the effective holding of 616ction8,"

was revised to read:

‘Iv that the principles of national sovereignty andw
non-interference in the intern61  affairs of any Stat6 should be respected in
the holding of e16ctionsrttJ

(c) oPeratiV6  paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, which read:

"m all States to respect the principle of non-interference in the
internal affairs of States and the sovereign right of peoples to determine
their political , economic and social system, and to refrain from undertaking
actions to undermine the electoral proc6sses in other countriesJ

"Stronalv  woeala to all States to abstain from financing or providing,
directly or indirectly, any other form of overt or covert support for
political parties or groups , contrary to the national legislation of those
countries involved 1% electoral processesr

“Condemna  any act of armed aggression or threat or use of force against
peoples, Governments or their legitimate lead6rsJ"

/ . I .



A/44/028
English
Pag6 5

W6t6 r6viard to r6adt

"w all Stat68 to r6spect the principle of non-int6rf6renc6 in th6
int6rnal  affair8  of Stat68 and the sov6r6ign right of psopl68 to d6termin6
th6ir political, 6conomic and Social 6y6t6mJ

"v to all States to abstain from financing or providing,
dir6atly or indir6Ctly, any Oth6r  form of overt or cov6rt support for
political part168 or groups and from taking actions to und6rmine the 6lectoral
proc6srrr  in any country)

"a any act of armed aggrerrion or threat or us6 of force against
p6opl66, 616Ct6d GOV6rMl6ntS Or their 16gitimat6 16RdOflJ”r

14. At th6 sama m6eting, the representativ68  of El Salvador and France (on b6half
of the 12 Stat68 Memb6rs of th6 Unit6d Nation6 that are m6mb6rs  of the European
Community) made rtat6m6nts in 6xplanation of vot6 b6foro th6 vats (866
A/C,3/44/SR.56).

15. At th6 56th m66ting, on 27 NOvOmber, the Committ66 adopted draft r6solution
A/C.3/44/L.6O/R6v.l,  as orally r6vis6dr by a recorded vote of 100 to 24, with
11 abstentions 11 (166 para. 17, draft rtlsolution II), The voting was as follows:

zalavourr Afghanistan, Albania, Alg6ria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Arg6ntina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Banglad6ah, Barbados, Bonin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
By6lorursian Sovi6t Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cap6 VBrd6,
C6ntral  African Republic, Chad, Chins., Colombia, Congo, C&6
d' IVOir6, Cuba, CyprUSr Ca6choslovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea,
D6mOCratiC Y6mbn, Dominican Rspublic,  Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Qabon, G6rman D6mocratic  R6public, Ghana, Guat6malar
Quin6a, Guin6a-BirEau,  Haiti, India, IndOn6Siar Iran (16lamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Abnya,  Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic R6public, L68Oth0, Lib6ria, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldiv68, Mali. Mauritania, bfBXiC0,
Mongolia, MOsRmbiqU6~ Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nig6r, Nigeria,
Gman, Pakistan, Panma, Papua N6w Gufn6a, Pwu,  Philippines,
Qatar, Romania, RwandaI Saudi Arabia, S6nrga1, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surimm6, Swaailand, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Tuniria, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
R6publiC,  Union Of SOvi6t SOCiali6t  R6p~b.\iCS,  UDi+Sd Arab
Emirates, United Rspublic of Tansania, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet
Nam, Y6men, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwrt,

11 The representative of Hondura6 indicat6d that his delegation could not at
th6 moment participate in the action t&ken on th6 draft r6solution.

/ . I .



A/44/828
English
Page 6

Aoainst: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Chile, Egypt, El Salvador, Fiji, Gambia, Hungary, Malta, Sierra
Leone, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Zaire.

16. The representatives of Turkey and New Zealand made statements in explanation
of vote after the vote (see A/C.3/44/SR.56).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

17. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Enhancinu  the effectiveness of the nrinciole of periodic
and aenuine elections

The General Assembly,

Aware of its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to
develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of
equal rights and self-determination of peoples and to promote and encourage
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a/ which provides
that everyone has the right to take part in the government of his or her
country, directly or through freely chosen representatives, that everyone has
the right to equal access to public service in his or her country, that the
will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government, and that
this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be
by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by
equivalent free voting procedures,

Notinq that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights a/
provides that every citizen shall have the right and the opportunity, without
distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion,
political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or
other status, to take part in the conduct of public affairs, directly or

21 Resolution 217 A (III).

3/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/ . . .



A/44/828
English
Page 7

through freely chosen representatives, to vote and to be elected at genuine
periodic elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be
held by secret ballot, guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the
electors, and to have access, on general terms of equality, to public servjce
in his or her country,

Condemning the system of aoartheid and any other denial or abridgement of
the right to vote on the grounds of race, colour, sex. language, religion,
political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or
other status,

Considerinq that tbe tricameral parliament established under the system
of aDartheid is a gross violation of the principle of universal and equal
suffrage and has been overwhelmingly rejected by the international community,

Recallinq that all States enjoy sovereign equality and that each State
has the right freely to choose and develop its political, social, economic and
cultural systems,

Recocsnizinq that there is no single political system or electoral method
that is equally suited to all nations and their people,

Recalling its resolution 431157 of 8 December 1988,

Also recallinq Commission on Human Rights resolution 1989/51 of
7 March 1999, A/

1. Emuhasizeg  the significance of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which
establish that the authority to govern shall be based on the will of the
people, as expressed in periodic and genuine elections;

2 . Stresses its conviction that periodic and genuine elections are a
necessary and indispensable element of sustained efforts to protect the rights
and interests of the governed and that, as a matter of practical experience,
the right of everyone to take part in the government of his or her country is
a crucial factor in the effective enjoyment by all of a wide range of other
human rights and fundamental freedoms, embracing political, economic, social
and cultural rights;

3. Declares that determining the will of the people requires an
electoral process that provides an equal opportunity for all citizens to
become candidates and put forward their political views, individually and in
co-operation with others within constitutional and national legislation:

41 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council. 198Q, Sunolement
No. 2 (E/1989/20), chap. II, sect. A.

/ . . .



A/44/628
English
Page 8

4. w that the efforts of the international community to
enhance the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections
should not call into question each State’s sovereign right freely to choose
and develop its political, social, ecoriomic  and cultural systems, whether ox
not they conform to the preferences of other States;

5. -es the duty of each member of the international community to
respect the decisions taken by other States in freely choosing and developing
their electoral institutionsr

6. Reaffirms that m must be abolished, that the systematic
denial or abridgement of the right to vote on the grounds of race or colour is
a gross violation of human rights and an affront to the conscience and dignity
of mankind, and that the right to participate in a political syp.tem based on
common and equal citiaensrip and universal franchise is essential fox the
exercise of the principle of periodic and genuine elections8

w the txicameral parliament established under the system of
as an abhorrent expression of a fundamentally oppressive ani

flagrantly inhuman political systemt

a. Calls unon the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-sixth
session, to continue its consideration of appropriate ways and means of
enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine
elections, in the context of full respect for the sovereignty of Member
States, and to report to the General Acsembly  at its forty-fifth session,
through the Economic and Social Councilr

9 . pecim to include in the agenda of its forty-fifth session the item
entitled “Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine
elections”,

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Respect fox the Fxincioles  of national sovereiuntv a d
non-interference in the internal affairs of States ii

their electoral orocesseg

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the purposes of the United Nations to develop friendly
relations among nations based on respect fox the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples and to take other appropriate measures to
strengthen universal peace,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, by which it
adopted the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries
and Peoples,

/ . . .



zdwa2a
English
Page 9

Recallinq its resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, by which it
proclaimed the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning
Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the
Charter of the United Nations,

Recallinq the principle enshrined in Article 2, paragraph 7, of the
Charter, where it is established that nothing contained in the Charter shall
authorize the United Nations to intervene in matters which are essentially
within the domestic jurisdiction of any State or shall require the Members to
submit such matters to settlement under the Charter,

Reaffirminq the legitimacy of the struggle of the oppressed people of
South Africa for the elimination of aoartheid and for the establishment of a
society in which all the people of South Africa as a whole, irrespective of
race, colour or creed, will enjoy equal and full political and other rights
and participate freely in the determination of their destiny,

Also reaffirminq the legitimacy of the struggle of all peoples under
colonial and foreign domination, particularly the Palestinian people, for the
exercise of their inalienable right to self-determination and national
independence that will enable them to decide freely on their own future,

Recoanixinq that the principles of national sovereignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of any State should be respected in
the holding of elections,

Also recoanisinq that there is no single political system or single model
for electoral processes equally suited to all nations and their peoples, and
that political systems and electoral processes are subject to historical,
political, cultural and religious factors,

1. Reiterates that, by virtue of the principle of equai rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,
all peoples have the right freely to determine, without external interference,
their political status and to pursue their economic, social and cultural
development, and that every State has the duty to respect that right in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter:

2. Affirms that it is the sole concern of peoples to determine methods
and to establish instituticas regarding the electoral process, as well as the
ways for its implementation according to constitutional and national
legislation:

3. Also affirms that any extraneous activities that attempt, di!:ectly
or indirectly, to interfere in the free development of national electoral
processes, in particular in the developing countries, or that intend to sway
the results of such processes violate the spirit and letter of the principles
established in the Charter and in the Declaration on Principles of
International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations;

/ . . .



A/44/828
Englirh
Page 10

4. w all Statea to respect the principle of non-interference in the
internal affairs of States and the movereign  right of peoples to determine
thtrir  po l i t i ca l , economic and social syatemr

5. B! ,*m to all Gtates  to abstain from fh!kcing or
providing, directly or indirectly, any other form of overt or covert support
for political parties or groups and from taking actions to undermine the
electoral processes in any country)

6. Q2a&mn~  any act of armed aggremsiol*  or threat or use of force
against psoplpa,  elecLad ‘?overnments  or their legitimate leaders)

7. WY dew that only the total eradication of m and
the ertablishment of a non-racial, democratic society based on majority rule,
tnrough the full an4 free exercise of adult suffrage by all the peop!p  ;u a
united and non-fragmented South Africa, can lead to a just and lasting
solution to the explosive situation in South Africa)

8. R-m thp legitimacy of the struggle of all peoples under
c o l o n i a l  - foreign domination, particularly the Palestinian people, for the
exercise of their inalienable  right to self-determination and national
independence that will enabJe them to determine their political, economic and
social system, without external interference1

9. Ws w the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-sixth
session, to give priority to the review of the fundamental factors that
negatively affect the observance bf the principle of national sovereignty and
non-interference in the inter-al affairs of States in their electoral
processes, and to report t &e General Assembly at its forty-fifth session,
through the Economic and Social Council)

10. &cruesU  the Sr)cretary-General  to report to the General Assembly, at
its forty-fifth session, on the implementation of the present resolution under
the item entitled “Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle o@ periodic
and genuine elections”,


