
















































IJNITEQ
NATIONS

A
___--_I -.-

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/790
5 December 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 68

ISRAELI NUCLEAR ARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

Raorrorteur: Mr. Limitris PLATIS (Greece)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament" was included in the provisional
agenda of the forty-fourth session in accordance with benera Assembly resolution
43/80 of 7 December 1988.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1089, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 69
and 151. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and the
25th meetings, from 16 October to 1 November (see A/C.1/44/PV.3-25). Consideration
of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place at the 26th to
41st meetings, between 2 and 17 November (see A/C.1/44/PV.26-41).

4. In connection with item 68, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli nuclear armament (A/44/658):

(b) Letter dated 19 July 1989 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the texts of the final documents of the Ministerial
Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held
at Harare, from 17 to 19 May 1989 (A/44/409-S/20743 and Corr.1 and 2);

89-31720 0302P (E) / . . .



A/44/790
Pngl ish
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 22 September 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the texts of the final documents of the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from
4 to 7 Sept+:mber  1989 (A/44/551-S/20870)$

(d) Letter dated 31 October 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Saudi
Arabia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
texts of the final communiqui  of the Co-ordination Meeting of the Ministers for
Foreign Affairs of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, held at United
Nations Headquarters on Wednesday, 4 October 1989, and the Declaration of the
Fourth Extraordinary Session of the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers on the
plight of the Turkish Muslim minority in Bulgaria, held at United Nations
Headquarters on Wednesday, 4 October 1989 (A/44/700-S/20934).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/44/L,21

5. On 30 October, VBshypin. Dwti.  Irau, Jorw Ku ait the L&an
Acab Jamptiva,  ma. MO-O,  Omen,, S a u d i  Ar->i-a,.  t h e
m, the Syrian Arab E&p&lic.  T&B~& and the !&&zd-AArabEmir.at.gg  submitted a
draft resolution entitled “Israeli  nuclear armament” (A/C.1/44/L.21),  which wa3
later also sponsored by DemocraticYam.  Egypt, T,ebma a n d  YemeQ..  T h e  d r a f t
resolution was introduced by the representative of Kuwait at the 30th meeting, on
7 November.

6, At its 41st meeting, on 17 November, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C,1/44/L.21  as  fo l lows;

(a) The sixth preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of 86 to
20, with 18 abstentions. The voting was as follows!

In favour Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darusaalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Egypt,
Eth iop ia ,  F i j i , Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mad? ;ascar,
Malaysia, M.lldives, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Yozambique,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, jaudi Arabia,
Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.



A/44/790
Engl i sh
Page 3

Aaainetr Aurtria, Belgium, Canada, Denmai-k,  Finland, France, Qermany,
F e d e r a l  Republ i c  o f ,  I c e l a n d ,  I re land ,  Iarasl.  I ta ly ,  Luxembourg ,
Natherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Unitod States of
America.

A-r Argentina, Australia, Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil,
Chile, Ecuador, Greece, Jamaica, Japan, Malawi, Malta, Samoa,
Togo, Uruguay, Veneauela.

(b) The tenth preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of 73
to 22, with 24 abstentions. The voting was aa follows;

Lnfaynmt Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
F a s o , Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoslovakia,  Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti ,  Egypt,  Qabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Guyana. Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mald!ves,  Mali, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambique,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Swaailand, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic nf Tanzania,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe,

Aaeinstr Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Federal Reyublic of, Haiti, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

&stainingt Argentina, Bahamas, Bolivia, Brazil, Central African Republic,
Chile, Ecuador, Fiji,  Greece, Jamaica, Japan, Lesotho, Malawi,
Malta, Mexico, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Samoa, Spain, Suriname,
Togo, Turkey, Uruguay, Veneauela.

(c) Operative paragraph 2 was adopted by a recorded vote of 88 to 20, with
17 abstentions. The voting wan aa follows8

3nfavourr Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Fabo, Burundi, Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cameroon, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Csechoslovakia,  Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Germa Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, H a i t i ,  Hungary, India,

I . . .



A/44/790
English
Page 4

Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of ), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’8  Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,  Mali, Mongolia,
Morocco, Moaatnbiqur,  rJicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Peru, Philippinea, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand, Syrian
Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanaania,  VC)nezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe,

Aasinst* Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Francs, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,  Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

#&~&WI  Australia, Bahama8, Bolivia, Brazil, Central African Republic,
Chile, Fiji,  Greece, Japan, Lesotho,  Malawi, Malta, Mexico, Papua
New Guinea, Samoa, Togo, Uruguay.

(d) Operative paragraph 6 was adopted by a recorded vote of 78 to 22, with
22 abstentions,

Infavourr

The voting was as follows8

Afghanistan, A l b a n i a ,  A l g e r i a ,  A n g o l a ,  A r g e n t i n a ,  B a h a m a s ,  .a
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cameroon, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, G&Son, Gambia,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tunia.‘a,  Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Central African Republic,
Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Fiji, Greece, Jamaica, Malawi, Malta,
Mexico, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Samoa, Singapore, Togo, Turkey,
Uruguay, Venezuela.



h/44/790
English
Page 5

(e) Operative paragraph 7 was adopted by a recorded vote of 68 to 22, with
31 abstentions, The voting was as follows: 1/

IIlxmakr  : Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalamr  Burkina
Faso, Burundi, China, Colombia, C o n g o ,  Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
Yemen, DIjibouti,  Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali ,  Mongolia,
M o r o c c o , Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Qat.ar  , Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainst;l Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, I ce land ,  I re land ,  I s rae l ,  I ta ly ,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

wing! Bahamas, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Social.ist  Republic, Central Afrjcan Republic, Chile, Costa Rica,
Czechoslovakia, Ecutdor, Fiji, German Democratic Republic,
Greece, Hungary, Jamaica, Kenya, Malawi, Malta, Mexico, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Samoa, Togo, Turkey, Ukrainian
Soviet  Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Uruguay, Venezuela.

( f)  Draft  resolution A/C.1/44/L.21,  as  a  whole , was adopted by a recorded
vote of 91 to 2, with 34 abstentions (see pars. 7). The voting was as follows:

&L.flWQ-W  8 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Banglaclosh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt’ Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guatsmals, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India,
Indontsia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwai t, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,

11 Subsequently, the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran indicated
that it had intended to vote in favour.



A / 4 4 / 7 9 0
English
Page 6

Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somal ia ,  Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaailsnd,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailaild,  Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republ i c  o f  Tanaania, Veneauela,  Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

A!idJULLl Ieraetl, United States of  America.

-1 Australia, Austria,  Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Central
A f r i c a n  R e p u b l i c , Chile, Costa Rica, Denmark, Fiji,  Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland.
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malta, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Samoa,
Singapore, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, Uruguay.

I I I , RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution8

B.Qm..iD%Al its previous resolutions on Israeli nuclear armament, the
latest of which is resolution 43/80 of 7 December 1988,

R9.alh its resolution 43165 of  7 December 1988, in which, inter al&g,
it called for placing all nuclear facilities in the region under International
Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, pending the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East,

Re.@ling ala9 Security Council resolution 487 (1981) of 19 June 1981, in
which, i.nta.u, the Council called upon Israel urgently to place all its
nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards,

R9tia.q that only Israel has been specifically called upon by the Security
Council to place its nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy
Agency safeguards,

mAj,ng with gllpve concw Israel ’s  persistent  refusal  to  commit  i tsel f
not to manufacture or acquire nuclear weapons, despite repeated calls by the
General Assembly, the Security Council and the International Atomic Energy
Agency,

/ . . I



A/44/1  90
English
Page 7

Takinati con- resclution G C  (XXXIII)/!.‘RS/506  o f
29 September 1989 adopted by the General Confrremcs  of the International
Atomic Energy Agency, in which the General Conference deplored Israel’s
refusal to submit all its nuclear facilities to the Agency’s safeguards and
called upon Israel to comply with Security Council resolution 487 (1981),

tiotakinainto the statement of the Ninth Conference of
Heads of State or Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at
Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, ent i t l ed  “ In ternat i ona l  s e c u r i t y  and
disarmament”, 2/ in paragraph 12 of which Israel was condemned for continuing
to develop its nuclear military programmes and weapons qf ma..8  destruction and
for its refusal to implement the resolutions of the United Nations and the
International Atomic Energy Agancy in this regard,

v by the information with regard to the continuing
production, development and acquisition of nuclear weapons by Israel and its
testing of their delivery systems in the Mediterranean, thus threatening the
peace and security of the region,

Aware of the grave consequences that endanger international peace and
security as a result of Israel’s development and acquisition of nuclear
weapons and Israel’s collaboration with South Africa to develop nuclear
weapons and their delivery systems,

I&!- concerr)ad that the declared Israeli policy of attacking and
destroying nuclear  faci l i t ies  devoted to peaceful  purposes  is  a  part  of  i t s
nuclear armament policy,

1. 3.&&&W i ts  colllaamnation o f  I s rae l ’ s  refueal t o  r enounce  asly
possession of nuclear weapons)

2 . also its cou&m.&&m  of the ?o-operation  between Israel
and South A f r i c a !

3 . ExnreseeEli.tsQer>concern at Israel ’s  continuing production,
development and acquisition of nuclear weapons and testing of the i r  delivery
systemat

4 . Bmsts cnc3 mom the Security Council to take urgent and effective
measures  to ensure that Israel complies with Council reeolution  487 (3.981);

5, pemar\Bs  once mora that  Israel  place al l  i ts  nuclear faci l i t ies  under
International Atomic Energy Agency safsguardsr

6 . tills uoon all States and organisations that have not yet done so to
discontinue co-operating with and giving assistance to Israel in the nuclear
f ieldt

2/ See A/44/551-S/20870,  annex,

/ * . .



A/44/790
English
Page 8

7. Reiterates its resuest to the International Atomic Energy Agency to
suspend any co-operation with Israel that could contribute to its nuclear
capabilities;

8. Requests also the International Atomic Energy Agency to inform the
Secretary-General of any steps Israel may take to place its nuclear facilities
under Agency safeguards:

9. Reouests the Secretary-General to follow closely Israeli nuclear
activities and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth
session:

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fifth
session the item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament".


