







































UNITED
NATIONS

•

General Assembly

A

Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.2/Rev.1
6 October 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 39

QUESTION OF PALESTINE

Algeria, BahlC"ain, Bangladesh, Colombia, Cuba, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, }~adagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania,
Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia,
Sudan, Syrian Arab RepUblic, Tl'.nisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, United Arab Emirates, Yemen and Yugoslavia: revised

draft resolution

The uprising (intifadah) of the Palestinian people

The General Assembly,

Aware of the uprising (intifadah) of the Palestinian people since
9 December 1987 against Israeli occupation, which has received significant
attention and sympathy from world public opinion,

Deeply concerned at the alarming situation in the Palestinian territory
occupied since 1967 as a result of the continued occupation by Israel, the
occupying Power, and of its persistent policies and practices against the
Palestinian people,

Reaffirming that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian
Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 1/ is applicable to the Palestinian
territory occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem and to the other
occupied Arab territories,

1/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.

89-23902 1404Z (E) / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L. 21Rev.1
English
Page 2

Expressing its profound shock at the continued measures by Israel, the
occupying Power, including the killing and wounding of Palestinian civilians and
the recent action of ransacking the houses of defenceless civilians in the
Palestinian town of Beit Sahour,

Stressing the need to promote international protection to the Palestinian
civilians in the occupied Palestinian territory,

Recognizing the need for increased support to, aid for and solidarity with the
Palestinian people under Israeli occupation,

Having considered the recommendations contained in the report of the
Secretary-General, £1

Recalling its relevant resolutions as well as the relevant Security Council
resolutions,

1. Condemns those policies and practices of Israel, the occupying Power,
which violate the human rights of the Palestinian people in the occupied
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and, in particular, such acts as the
opening of fire by the Israeli army and settlers that result in the killing and
wounding of defenceless Palestinian civilians, the beating and breaking of bones,
the deportation of Palestinian civilians, the imposition of restrictive economic
measures, the demolition of houses, and ransacking of real or personal property
belonging individually or collectively to private persons, collective punishment
and detentions, and so forth;

2. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, abide scrupulously by the
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August 1949, and that it desist immediately from those policies and practices
which are in violation of the provisions of the Convention;

3. Calls upon all the High Contracting Parties to the Convention to ensure
respect by Israel, the occupying Power, for the Convention in all circumstances in
conformity with their obligation under article 1 thereof;

4. Strongly deplores the continuing disregard by Israe~, the occupying
Power, of the relevant decisions of the Security Council;

5. Reaffirms that the occupation by Israel of the Palestinian territories
since 1967, including Jerusalem, and of the other occupied Arab territories, in no
way changes the legal status of those territories;

6. Reguests the Security Council to consider with urgency the situation in
the occupied Palestinian territory with a view to considering measures needed to
provide international protection to the Palestinian civilians in the Palestinian
territory occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem;

£1 S/19443.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.21Rev.l
English
Page 3

7. Inyites Member States, the organizations of the United Nations system,
government.al, intergovElrnmental and non-governmental or~Jan.izati"ns, and' the mass
communications media to continue and enhance their support 'for the Palestinian
people;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to examine the present situation in the
Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, by all means
available to him and to submit periodic reports thereon, the first such report as
soon. as possible.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


