
















































UNITED
NATIONS

A

benoral  Assembly
Dists,
GENERAL

A / 4 4 / 7 9 2
29 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth BeBBion
Agenda item 151

EDUCATION AND INFORMATION FOR DISARMAMENT

ort of the Firat Cm

-X~ Mr. Dimitrir PLATIS (Greece)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Education and information for diaarmamentO’  war included a8
a supplementary item in the agenda of the forty-fourth Berrion in accordance with a
letter dated 16 August 1969 from the Permanent Representative of Costa Rica
acldreased .to the Secretary-General (A/44/194).

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General ABBembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At ite 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 69
and 151. The deliberations on those items took place betweon the 3rd and the
25th meetings, from 16 October to 1 November (me A/C.1/44/PV.3-25).  Consideration
of and action on draft resolutions on those itema took place between 2 and
17 November (Bee A/C.1/44/PV.26-41).

4. In connection with item 151, the First Committee had before it the letter from
the Permanent Representative of Costa Rice (A/44/194).

II. CONSIDERAXION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/44/L,17  AND Rev.1

5, On 30 October, &&w submitted a draft reeolution entitled *‘Education for
general and complete disarmament” (A/C.1/44/L.17), which waB introduced by its
representative at the 31Bt meeting, on 8 November. The draft reeolution read a.8
fOllOWB!

89-30804 0263P (E) / a*.



A/44/792
English
Page 2

“&m.J,y..myined  that the United Natione was established for the purpose
of laying the foundations of a new world order based on the general principles
set out in Article 2 of the Charter of the United Nations,

“lUlly-armra t h a t  I as the Preamble to the Constitution of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) 8ayBr  ‘a
peace based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of
Governments would not be a peace which could secure the unanimous, lasting and
sincere support of the peoples of the world, and that the peace must therefore
bo founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intt+llectual and moral solidarity
of mankind’,

“Eullv.wdad that, as the Preamble to the Constitution of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation also states, ‘since
wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of
peat: must be constructed’,

“Taking  J.nte.~ac~co..unf  the Final Document of the tenth special session of
the General Assembly 11 and, in particular, paragraph 106, by which
Governments and governmental and non-governmental international organisations
are urged to take steps to develop programmes of education for disarmament and
peace studies at all levels,

“Alti&g.A.n_minS  paragraph 107 of the aforesaid Final Document oE
the tenth special session of the General Assembly, which urges the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation ‘to step up its
programme aimed at the development of disarmament education as a distinct
field of study through the preparation, infer ab, of teachers-guides, text
books, readers and audio-visual materials. Member States should take all
possible measures to encourage the incorporation of such material in the
curricula of their educational institutes’,

“J@m.Jl.ing that the Final Document of the tenth special session of the
Cnnaral  Assembly, in its paragraphs 99, 100 and 101, provides for measures to
mcbilize  world public opinion on behalf of disarmament including the
dissemination of supplementary information and publicity as part of its
t!clucational work,

“Cons.ida.r.i.ng  that the World Disarmament Campaign plays an important
supplementary role in the educational efEorts  on behalf of disarmament carried
out by Governments within their own Rducational  and cultural development
systems, but that it cannot achieve irreversible results until training
Programmes are established at all levels of formal education for the purpose
of changing basic attitudes with respect to aggression, violence, armaments
and war,

11 Resolution S-10/2.

/ I . .



A / 4 4 / 7 9 2
English
Page 3

“Teaki.ng....fnto..a~~~nt  the principles an8 considerations expressed, an8 the
recommendations made, in the Report and Final Document of the World Congress
on Disarmament Education, held at the headquarters of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in Pario on 9-13 June 1980,

“1 . &g@&z the States members and international governmental and
non-governmental organizations to inform the Secretary-General concerning the
efforts they have made to comply with the provisions of paragraph 106 of the
Final Document of the tenth special session of the General Assemblyr

II 2. Raguezta  the Secretary-General., taking into account the reports of
the States members and international governmental  and non-governmental
organizations, to prepere an evaluation of the current state of world
education for disarmament. That evaluation should be made with the help of a
small group of experts in the composition of which preference should be given,
to the extent that circumstances permit, to members of the Secretariat of the
United Nations, the secretariat of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organfzation and of the international governmental and
non-governmental organizations wishing to participate at their own expense;

I I 3, Reg.uaz_ts.  the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to submit t.o the Disarmament. Commission at its 1990 substantive
session a report on what has been done to comply with the recommendations of
the World Congress on Disarmament Education of 1980 and, in particular, to
prepare and pub 1 ish a MU-Ed\acPltio n for PFaarmsment  prepared on the
basis of those ~commendetions;

“4 . F#.~~sts  the Disarmament Commission to discuss fully all the
problems of education and information for disarmament at its 1990 suhstnntive
session and to submit a report through its Rapporteur pinpointing areas on
which, in the opinion of Member States, short- and long-term interest should
be focused;

“5. Re~uesf;s  the Secretary-General to include in his report on the World
Disarmament Campaign submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth
session a section devoted to evaluating what has been done to comply with
paragraph 2 of this resolution and to submit a complete report on the
evaluation requested in paragraph 2 to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth
session:

“6 . Dac:jdo..s  to include an item entitled ‘Education and information for
cl.i:;i~rmament  ’ in the provisional agenda of its forty-fifth session.”

6 , On 8 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution entitled
“Education for diearmiunent.”  (A/C,1/44/L,17/Rev.l),
IqJ ccte cl’ ~vo.ir;s .

which was later also sponsored



A/44/792
English
Page 4

7. At its 34th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/44/L.17/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 130 to none, with 4 abstentions (see
para. 8). The voting was as follows: 21

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d'Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic. Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary.
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sudan. Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainst: None.

Abstaining: France, Germany, Federal Republic of, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

5. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

21 Subsequently, the delegation of Romania indicated that it had intended to
vcte in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A/44/792
English
Page 5

F.irmly .c.mv.inc:ad  that the United Nations was established for the purpose
(lf laying the foundations of a new world order based on the general principles
set out in Article 2 of its Charter,

Fully-.&ma that a peace based exclusively upon the political and
economic arrangements of Governments would not be a peace that could secure
the unanimous, lasting and sincere tiupport  of the peoples of the world, and
that the peace must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the
Intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind,

Eully-..g.sr.au~&~.d  that , since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the
minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed,

Taking.jr&~.-~gmmt the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly A/ and, in particular, paragraph 106 thereof, in which
Governments and governmental and non-governmental international organizations
were urged to take steps to develop programmes of education for disarmament
and peace studies at all levels,

Ctim-a that paragraphs 99, 100 and 101 of the Final Doclunent  provide
,.or mechanisms to mobilise world public opinion on behalf of disarmament,
including the dissemination of supplementary information and publicity as part
of its educational work,

AbS.Q-..c.Qn&..~.r.i.ng  that the World Disarmament Campaign plays an important
supplementary role in the educational efforts on behalf of disarmament carried
out by Governments within their own educational and cultural development
sys terns, but that they cannot achieve irreversible results until training
programmes ara established at all levels of formal education for the purpose
of changing basic attitudes with respect to aggression, violence, armaments
nnd war,

1. Inv_irf;m.  Member States and international governmental and
nun-governmental organizations to inform the Secretary-General about the
efforts that they have made to respond to the call made in paragraph 1OG of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly;

2. R.egue.s_ts t”he Secretary-General, within available resources, to
prepare a report on the current state of education for disarmament, taking
into acr:ount  the reports of Member States and inteinational governmental and
non-governmental organizations and based on information available f tom other
.?;ources;

3.1 Resolution S-1012.

/ * . .



A/44/792
English
t’nqn fj

3. Al.s.o...reguaafs  the Secretary-General to submit the report6 requested
in paragraphs 1 and 2 above to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth sessionr

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fifth
6e66ion the item entitled “Education and information for disarmament”.


