







































UNITED
NATIONS

A
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.3l
9 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 28

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Byelorussiqn Soviet Socialist
Republic, Comoros, Cuba,Djibouti, ~~hiopia, Gambia, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahirlya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Qatar,
Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tunisia, Ugan6."". Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of
Tanzania, Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe: draft

resolution

Relations between South Africa and Israel

The General Assembly,

Recalling all its previous resolutions concerning the relations between South
Africa and Israel and, in particular, its resolution 43/50 E of 5 December 1988,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee against Apartheid on
recent developments concerning relations between South Africa and Israel, 1/

Noting with concern that the military relations between South Africa and
Israel, especially in the area of military technology and in partiCUlar the
collaboration in the recent production and testing of nuclear missiles, continue
unabated,

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 22 (A/44/22), part two.

89-28122 l632Z (E) / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.31
English
Page 2

Taking note of the relevant prov1s1on of the political declaration adopted by
the Ninth Conference of Heads of S~ate or Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, ~I

1. Condemns the collaboration of Israel with the racist minority regime of
South Africa in the military and nuclear fields;

2. Reiterates its demand that Israel desist from and terminate forthwith all
forms of collaboration with South Africa, particularly in the military and nuclear
fields;

3. Requests the Special Committee against Apartheid to continue to monitor
the relations between South Africa and Israel and keep them under constant review
and ~eport to the General Assembly and the Security Council as appropriate.

~I See A/44/55l~S/20870, annex.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


