







































UNITED
NATIONS

A
General AS8embly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.42
15 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 30

LAW OF THE SEA

Australia. Austria. Bahrain. Bangladesh. Cameroon. Canada. Cape
Verde. Chile. China. Denmark, Fiji. Finland, German Democratic
Republic, Iceland. Ireland. Jamaica. Liberia. Malaysia. Mexico.
Myanmar. Nepal. New Zealand. Norway. Oman. Philippines.
Portugal, Romania. Saint Lucia. Samoa. Sri Linka. Sweden,
Trinidad and Tobago. United Republic of Tanzania. Uruguay and

Vanuatu: draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Recalling its reso~utions 37/66 of 3 December 1982, 38/59 A of
14 Dec~mber 1983, 39/73 of 13 December 1984, 40/63 of 10 December 1985, 41/34 of
5 Npve~er 1986, 42/20 of 18 November 1981 and 43/18 of 1 November 1988, regarding
the law of the sea,

Recognizing that, as stated in the third preambular paragraph of the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1/ the problems of ocean space are
closely interrelated and need to be considered as a whole,

Convinced that it is important to safeguard the unified character of the
Convention and related resolutions adopted therewith and to apply them in a manner
consi~teut with that character and with their object and purpose,

Emphasizin.g the need for States to ensure consistent application of the
COnvention, as well as the need for harmonization of national legislation with the
provisions of the Convention,

1/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the
Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A1CONF.62/122.

89-28945 1697Z (E) I ••.

---~------------------_....._------------Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.42
English
Page 2

Considering that, in its resolution 2749 (XXV) of 17 December 1970, it
proclaimed that the'sea-bed and ocean floor, and the subsoil thereof, beyond the
limits of national jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as lithe Area"), as well as
the resources of the Area, are the common heritage of mankind,

Recalling that the Convention provides the regime to be applied to the Area
and its resources,

Welcoming the expressions of willingness to explore all possibilities of
addressing issues, as referred to in the statements made at the end of the meeting
of the Preparatory Commission for the International Sea-Bed Authority and for the
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea held in the summer of 1989, in order
to secure universal participation in the Convention,

Recognizing the need for co-operation in the early and effective
i~plementation by the Preparatory Commission of resolution II of the Third United
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, AI

Noting with satisfaction the progress made in the Preparatory Commission s~,nce
its inception, including the registration in 1987 as pioneer investors of Institut
fran9ais de recherche pour l'exploitation de la mer (IFREMER), the Government of
India, Deep Ocean Resources Development Co., Ltd. (DORD) and Yuzhmorgeologiya,
whose applications were submitted by the Governments of France, India, Japan and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics respectively, bearing in mind that such
registration entails both rights and obligations,

Noting also with satisfaction the designation by the Preparatory Commission of
reserved areas for the Authority from the application areas submitted by the
pioneer investors pursuant to resolution II,

Noting also that the Preparatory Commission has decided to hold its eighth
regular session at Kingston from 5 to 30 March 1990 and to hold a summer meeting in
1990, ~I

Noting further the increasing needs of countries, especially of developing
countries, for information, advice and assistance in the implementation of the
Convention and in their developmental process for the full reali~ation of the
benefits of the comprehensive legal regime established by the Convention,

Concerned that the developing countries are as yet unable to take effective
measures for the full realization of these benefits owing to the lack of resources
and of the necessary scientific and technological capabilities,

AI Ibid., document A/CONF.62/12l, annex I.

~I A/44/650, para. 118.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.42
English
Page 3

Recognizing the need to enhance and supplement the efforts of States and
competent international organizations to enable developing countries to acquire
such capabilities,

Recognizing also that the Convention encompasses all uses and resources of the
sea and that all related activities within the United Nations system need to be
implemented in a manner consistent with it,

Noting with appreciation the important initiative of the Secretary-General in
convening inter-~gency consultations on international and regional developments in
ocean affairs and the law of the sea, il

Deeply concerned at the current state of the marine environment,

Mindful of the importance of the Convention for the protection of the marine
environment,

Noting with concern the use of fishing methods and practices that can have an
adverse impact on the conservation and management of the living resources of the
marine environment,

Taking special note of the report of the Secretary-General on the protection
and preservation of the marine environment prepared in pursuance of paragraph 15 of
General Assembly resolution 43/18, li/

ConsciQus Qf the urgent need tQ increase the scientific knowledge of the
ma~ine envirQnment,

Taking nQte of activities carried out in 1989 under the major programme on
marine affairs, set forth in chapter 25 Qf the medium-term plan for the period
1984-1989, in accordance with the report of the Secretary-General, ~I as approved
in General Assembly resolution 38/59 A, and the report of the
Secretary-General, 21

Recalling its approval Qf the financing Qf the expenses Qf the Preparatory
Commission from the regular budget of the United NatiQns,

Taking special nQte of the report Qf the Secretary-General prepared in
pursuance of paragraph 14 of General Assembly resolution 43/18, 21

il Ibid., para. 206.

~I A/44/46l and Corr.l.

~I A/38/570 and CQrr.l and Add.l and Add.l/CQrr.l.

21 A/44/650.

I •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.42
English
Page 4

1. Recalls the historic significance of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea as an important contribution to the maintenance of peace, justice
and progress for all peoples of the world;

2. E~resses i~s satisfactiQA at the increasing and overwhelming support for
the Convention, as evidenced, inter alia, by the one hundred and fifty-nine
signatures and forty-two of the sixty ratifications or accessions required fo~
entry into force of the Convention;

3. Inyites all States to make renewed efforts to facilitate universal
participation in the Convention;

4. Calls upon all States that have not done so to consider ratifying or
acceding to the Convention at the earliest possible date to allow the effective
entry into force of the new legal regime for the uses of the sea and its
resources;

5. Also calls upon all States to safeguard the unified character of the
Convention and related resolutions adopted therewith and to apply them in a manner
consistent with that character and with their object and purpose;

6. Also calls upon States to observe the provisions of the Convention when
enacting their national legislation;

7. ~ the progress being made by the Preparatory Commission for the
International Sea-Bed Authority and for the International Tribunal for the Law of
the Sea in all areas of its work;

8. Reiterates its conviction that the early, satisfactory and successful
conclusion of the current consultations in the Preparatory Commission on the
implementation of the obligations of the registered pioneer investors and the
certifying States would constitute an important contribution to the overall
progress in the work of the Commission;

9. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his efforts in
support of the Convention and for the effective execution of the major programme on
marine affairs set forth in chapter 25 of the medium-term plan for the period
1984-1989 and requests him to take into account the prospective entry into force of
the Convention· and the increased needs of States for assistance in the
implementation of the Convention in the medium-term plan for the period 1992-1997;

10. Also expresses its appreciation for the report of the Secretary-General
prepared in pursuance of General Assembly resolution 43/18 1/ and requests him to
carry out the activities outlined therein, as well as those aimed at the
strengthening of the legal regime of the sea, special emphasis being placed on the
work of the Preparatory Commission, including the implementation of resolution 11
of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea;

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.42
English
Page 5

11. Calls ypon the Secretary-General to continue to assist States in the
implementation of the Convention and in the development of a consistent and uniform
approach to the legal regime thereunder, as well as in their national, subregional
and regional efforts towards the full realization of the benefits therefrom, and
invites the organs and organizations of the United Nations system to co-operate and
lend assistance in these endeavours;

12. Requests the competent international organizations, in accordance with
their respective policies, to intensify financial, technological, organizational
and managerial assistance to the developing countries in their efforts to realize
the benefits of the comprehensive l~gal regime established by the Convention and to
examine means of strengthening co-operation among themselves and with donor States
in the provision of such assistance;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to present to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth and forty-sixth sessions a report identifying the needs of States in
regard to the development and management of ocean resources and the measures
currently taken by States and by the competent international organizations in
responding to those needs, and to suggest methods and mechanisms for maximizing
opportunities for the early realization for all States during the decade 1990 to
2000 of the benefits of the comprehensive legal regime established by the
Convention;

14. Approves the decision of the Preparatory Commission to hold its eighth
regular session at Kingston from 5 to 30 March 1990 and to hold a summer meeting in
1990;

15. Recognizes that the protection of the marine environment will be
significantly enhanced by the implementation of applicable provisions of the
Convention;

16. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his report on the
protection and preservation of the marine environment ~I and. requests him to make
the report available to the intergovernmental meetings to be held in preparation of
the proposed 1992 United Nations conference on environment and development;

17. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare an updated and expanded report
on the protection and preservation. of the marine environment as a contribution to
the proposed 1992 conference, taking into account, inter alia, the comments
thereon;

18. Calls upon States and other members of the international community to
strengthen their co-operation in the conservation of marine living resources,
including the prevention of the use of fishing methods and practices that can have
an adverse impact on the conservation and management of marine living resources;

19. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare for the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session a study on marine scientific research in the light of the
provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea;

I •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L_42
Enqlish
PaCje 6

~o_ . AlsQreguests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-fifth session on the developments pertaininq to the Convention and all
related activities and on the implementation of the present resolution;

21. Decide§ to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fifth session
the item 'entitled "Law of the sea".

~.,

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


