
















































UNITED
NATiONS

Dish-.
GENERAL

A/44/778
29 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 56

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS ON THE
STRENGTHENING OF THE SECURITY OF NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON STATES

AGAINST THE USE OR THREAT OF USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Raoporteur: Mr. Dimitris PLATIS (Greece)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements on the
strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons" was included in the provisional agenda of the
forty-fourth session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 43/68 of
7 December 1988.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General- Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 69 and
151. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
25th meetings, from 16 October to 1 November (see A/C.1/44/PV.3-25). Consideration
of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place between the 26th and
41st meetings, from 2 to 17 November (see A/C.1/44/PV.26-41).

4. In connection with item 56, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

89-30798 0259P (E) / . . .



A/44/770
Engl ish
Page 2

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament) ;1/

(b) Letter dated 18 April 1989 from the Permanent Representativa of Saudi
Arabia to the United Nations addressed to ;he Secretary-General, transmitting the
text of the Final Communiqui of the Eighteenth Islamic Conference of Foreign
Ministers (session on Islamic fraternity and solidarity) held at Riyadh, from 6 to
9 Sha’ban A.H. 1409 (13 to 16 March A.D. 1989) (A/44/235-5/20600)!

(c) Letter dated 23 June 1989 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/44/347-S/20702))

(d) Letter  dated 19 July 1989 from the Chargjr  d ’af faires  a.i. of  the
Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the final documents of the Ministerial
Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held ,
at Harare from 17 to 19 May 1989 (A/44/409-S/20743 and Corr.1 and 2)1

(e) Letter dated 22 September 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, tr‘nsmitting
the texts of the final documents of the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of the MOV6ment of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1989 (A/44/551-S/20870)$

(f) Letter dated 2 November 1989 from the Permanent Representatives of
Finland and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed
to the Secretary-General (A/44/705-S/20940).

I I . CONSlDERATION  OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C,1/44/1,,23/Rev.l

5, On 33 October 1989, &lgaxir;!  and N&ggria submitted a draft resolution,
entitled “Conclusion of effective international arrangements on the strengthening
of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons” (A/C,1/44/L.23).

6 . On 7 November 1989, the sponso:s submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/44/L.23/Rev.l), which was introduced by the representative of Bulgaria at
the 30th meeting, on 7 November. The revised draft resolution contained the
following change: in operative paragraph 2, the phrase “and giving consideration
to any other proposals designed to secure the same objective” was added to the end
of the paragraph.

-.-- __....-_ --

11 Q~.C~d.&-.Jccords .of....t.he General-.__ -__.- .._ Assembly-.- 1 ..F.c!r_tyIfo.urth...S~.~.,sjo~,
app.Lpm_ent  No, 27 (A/44/27).

/ . . .



A / 4 4 / 7 7 8
English
Page 3

7. At its 35th meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C,1/44/L.23/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 113 to 1, with 20 abstentions (see
para.  8). The voting was as follows, a/

-yX 8 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,
China, Colombia, Congo, C6te B’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Domin.lcan  Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,  Finland,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia. Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Bsaihns_tI Turkey,

BbzstaLacng  g Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Denmark, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States  of America,
Uruguay,

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FtRST COMMITTEE

0. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolution:

---___..

21 Subsequently, the delegations of Barbados and Costa Rica indicated that
they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution, and the delegation of
Turkey indicated that it had intended to abstain.

/ . . .



A/44/770
English
Page 4

-4 at the arms race, in particular the nuclear-arms race,
and the possibility of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

&nvi& that nuclear disarmament and the complrte elimination of
nuclear weapons are essential to remove the danqer,  of nuclear war,

CcaamidlarFng that, until complete nuclear disarmnmunt  is achieved on a
universal basis, it is imperative for the international community to develop
effective arrangements to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

l&I.li.ng-~~  of the general desire to conclude effective international
measures to that end at an early date,

T.i&Lnq  nm-.jxl.s~ of the unilateral declarations on the security of
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
made by all nuclear-weapon States,

DQs.ico.us of promoting the implementation of paragraph 59 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 3_/ the first
special session devoted to disarmament,

Rec.Q.qni?-i.ng  that effactiva measures of such security assurances to
non-nuclear-weapon States would constitute an important contribution to the
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons,

Aware  of the in-depth negotiations on this subject in the Conference on
Disarmament during the past ten years,

Rccallinq the relevant p;lrts of the sprbcial  report of the Committoo on
Disarmament 4.1 submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special
session, 51 the second special session devoted to disarmament, and of the
special  report of the Conference  on Disarmament submitted to the Assembly at

31 Resolution S-10/2.

41 The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

/ . . .



A/44/718
English
Page 5

i t s  f i f t eenth  spec i a l  s e s s i on , p/ the third special session devoted to
disarmament, as well as of the annual report of the Con-srence  on its 1989
sess i on ,  21

Welcoming the unanimous support in the Conference on Disarmament to
continuing the search for a common approach to the substance of negative
security assurances, which could be included in a legally binding instrument,

m the need for  a  fresh look at  the issue,  in  part icular  by the
nuclear-weapon States, in order to overcome the difficulties encountered at
the negotiations in previous years,

w note of the proposals on this subject submitted to the Conference
on Disarmament, 81

1. Rttaffirms the urgent need, pending the achievement  of complete
nuclear disarmament, to reach an early agreement on effective international
arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of
use of nuclear weaponst

2. -a& that the Conference on Disarmament pursue intensive
negotiations in its &JJ#$Q.  Committee on Effective International Arrangements
to Assure Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use of
Nuclear Weapons at the beginning of its 1990  session, with a view to reaching
such an agreement, taking into account the widespread support in the
Conference for conclusion of an international convention and giving
consideration to any other proposals designod to secure the same objective;

3. AppQ3J.a  to  al l  States , in particular the nuclear-weapon States, to
demonstrate willingness and to exercise the f l e x i b i l i t y  IJeCossary  t o  r e a c h
agreement on a common approach to, including the possihllity  of a common
formula in, an international instrument or instruments  cf a legally binding
character, to assure the non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat.
of use of nuclear weaponst

4. Da.c;idQ.s.  to  include in  the provisional  agenda of  i ts  forty- f i f th
session the item entitled “Conclusion of effective international arrangements
on the strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States against the
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons”.

I!/ xl~&J.,  s e c t .  1II.Y.


