
















































UNITED
NATIONS

benetal Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/773
5 December  1989

ORIGINAL8 ENGLISH

Forty-fourth  session
Agenda item 51

AMENDMENT  OF THE TREATY BANNING NUCLEAR WEAPON  TESTS IN
THE ATMOSPHERE,  IN OUTER SPACE AND UNDER WATER

EBEWthe First Cum&tee

R8op-t Mr, Dimitris PLATIS (Gr88C8)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Amendment  of the Treaty Bandng Nuclear  Weapon  Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under  Water" was included in the provisional  agenda
of the forty-fourth  session in accordance  with General Assembly resolution  43163  B
o f  7 December  1988.

2. A t  its 3rd plenary meeting,  on 22 September 1989,  the General Assembly,
on the recommendation  of the General Committee, decided  to include the it-em in its
agenda and to allocate  it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold e
general  debate  on the disarmament  i t e m s  allocated to it, namely,  items 49 to 69 and
151. The deliberations on those items took place  between  the 3rd and the 25th
meetings, from 16 October  to 1 November  (see A/C.1/44/PV.3-25). Consideration  o f
and action on draft  resolutions  0:‘ those items took place  between  the 26th and 41at
meetings, from 2 to 17 November  (see A/C.1/44/PV.26-41).

4. In connection with item 51, the First Committee  had before it the following
documents*

(a) Letter dated  5 April 1989 from the representatives  of Indonesia,  Mexico,
Peru, Sri Lanka, Venezuela  and Yugoslavia  to the United Nations addressed  to the
Secretary-General  (A/44/211):

P9-31708 0299P  (E) / . .a



A/44/773
English
Page  2

(b) Letter  dated 23 JUn8 1989 f r o m  the Permanent R8pr8selitat.iV8  of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics  to the United Nations  addressed to (-he
Secretary-General  (A/44/347-S/20702);

(c) Letter  dated 19 July 1989 from the Charge d’affaires  n.i. of the
Permanent  Mission o f  Zimbabwe  to the United Nations  addressed  to I he
Secretary-General, transmitting  the final documents of t.he Mini.fiI.et~la.1  Meetiny of
the Co-ordinating  Bureau of the Movement  of Non-Aligned  Countries,  Iield nt. Harare,
from 17 to 19 May 1989 (A/44/409-S/20743 and Corr. 1 and 2);

(d) L e t t e r  dated 22 September 1969 from the Permanent  Repr r+seul  aLive or
Yugo,3lavia to the United Nations addressed  to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the final documents of the Ninth Conference of Heads of Statr. or’ (.:overnmont  of tr18
Movement  of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade, from 4 to ‘I September 1909
(A/44/551-5/20670).

Ii. CONSIDERATION  OF DRAFl RESOLUTION  A/C. 1/44/L.  25 AND REV. I

On 30 October  1989, the mBanaladesh, Bolivia. C o s t &  B.i,.c&l..-Cy~,
L the Pominicanc, Eam.d.wl Egypt.  Ghm~-..GuetarnalraL  .Ud$a,

c Reuc of ). Irag,  Jordan.&h-w.,
Paw. Psn~la,  PapuaeOuinaa,-u,  the
S!Qre,Sri~enka, the Sualn, the Lln.iteaBap&.l  i.c-!

Tanoania.w and ?a submitted a draft resolution
entitled “Amendment  o f  the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon  Tests in t h e  A t m o s p h e r e ,
in Outer Space and Under  Water” (A/C,1/44/L.25),  which was later also sponsored  by
Afahanistan.  B-m Varde. Co-El Salv&r. Fiii.  Gau, the C;ambia,
Hondurmt the Libyan Arab JamahFriva.~adaaas~~~tiusmbb,

SwacilanB,u Togo. Uw Urw and mm. The draft
resolution was introduced  by the representative  o f  Mexico at the 26th meeting, on
2 November.

6. On 15 November, the sponsors submitted  a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/44/L.25/Rev.l), which was introduced by the representative  of M e x i c o  a t  the
40th meeting, on 17 November. The revised  draft resolutio.1 containsd  the following
changes  :

(a) An eighth presmbular paragraph was added to the preamble and read as
follows  I

“Co- that such a conference will serve to streug1.h8t~  t.110 ‘rroat.y,  “I

(b) Operative  paragraph 1, which had read!

“1 , Becommends  that a praparatory  committee be estabJ.jr:lled,  oI.)Rtl  LO all
parties to the Treaty and that such a prepar8tOry  committee meet Irorn 22 to 2fj
January 1990 t0 make arrangements for the amendment  conferetlc*e  to IJF?  ~or~ver~ecl
for an initial two-to-three-week  session  in May/June 1990r”

/ . . .



A/44/773
English
Page 3

was replaced by a new paragraph reading:

"1. Recommends that a preparatory committee, open to all parties to the
Trii&.y 3anning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and
u&&r Water should be established to make arrangements for the amendment
conference and that such preparatory conrnittee  should meet at United Nations
Headqlrarters from 29 May to 1 June 1990, followed by a one-week session of the
confesedlce  from 4 to 8 June 1990 and a second substantive session from 7 to
18 January 1991;":

(c) New operative paragraphs 2 and 4 were added and read as follows:

“ 2 . Recommends also that the costs of the amendment conference and its
preparatory committee should be shared among the States parties to the Treaty,
on the basis of the present scale of assessments of the United Nations:"

“ 4 . Invites the amendment conference to transmit to the General Assembly
the documents it deems appropriate to keep the Assembly duly informed of its
ongoing work;";

(d) Griginal operative paragraphs 2 and 3 were renumbered as new operative
paragraphs 6 and 5.

7 . At the 41st meeting, on 17 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a
statement concerning the programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see
A/C.l/44/PV.41).

8 . At the same meeting, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/44/L.25/Rev.l,  as follows:

(a) The third preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of 116 to 6,
with 10 absentions.

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
CGte d*Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,

/ . . .



A/44/773
English
Page 4

Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudarl, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republi.c,  Thailand, Togo, TUniSia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Uniou of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United  Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,  Viet Nam, Yemen, Yuqoslavia,,Za&re,
Zambia, Zie.>abwe.

Auainst: Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of, Japan, Turkey. United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United  States of
America.

Abstaininq: Belgium, Denmark, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain.

(b) The phrase "at United Nations Headquarters" in operative paragraph 1 was
adopted by a recorded vote of 105 to 1, with 22 abstentions. The votiug was as
follows: 11 i

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroou, Central African
Republic, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C6t.e d'Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia. Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay. Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainst: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Irelancl.

11 Subsequently, the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic: informed the
Chairman that, had it been present during the vote, it would have voted in favour
of the phrase "at United Nations Headquarters" in operative paragraph 1.

/ l . .



A/44/173
English
Page 5

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Can,da, Denmark. Finland, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

(c) Operative paragraph 1, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded vote of 106
to 10, with 13 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, BoJivia. Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Camerootl,  Central African
Republic, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen. Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji. Gabon,
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria; Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka. Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainst: Belgium, Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland,
Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics.

(d) Operative paragraph 2 was adopted by a rectrded  vote of 105 to 9, with 14
abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'lvoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen. Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hai.ti,  Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's

/ . . *



A/44/77 3
English
Page 6

Democratic  Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,  Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Maclagaacar  , Malaysia, Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritius,  Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco,  Moenmbique,  Myanmar  , Nepal, Nicaragua, Niqer,
Nigeria,  Oman, Pakistan,  Panama, Papua New Guluoa,  E’RTII,
Philippines, Poland,  Qatnr, Romania,  Rwanda, Snucli Arihia,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia,  Sri Lanka,  Sudan,  SuI.lnF?me,
Swaziland,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,  ‘I’nnisia,  Uganda,
Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, United  Arr\l.~  EmirnLes, IJnitecI
Republic o f  Tanoania,  Uruguay, Vene)euela,  Viet: Mwn, Yemerl,
Yugoslavia, Zaire,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againat  1 Belgium,  Germany, Federal  Hepublic of, lsrae  1, I t.~ly, IIuxeml~ourq,
N e t h e r l a n d s ,  P o r t u g a l ,  S p a i n ,  lJniLed KL~~ydom  c,I’ (:I etiI.  13~iLain  and
Northern Irelanc’l

AhEiLAiniwt Australia, Austria,  Canada,  Denmark,  Fitlland,  l.:r’t?eL’e,  Icelnnd,
* Ireland, Japan, New Zealand,  Norwa: S w e d e n ,  ‘SIII k e y ,  1111ion  o f

Soviet  Socialist  Republics.

(e) Draft resolution A/C.1/44/L.25/Rev.l,  as a whole, was ~~cloptecl  by o
recorded  vote o f  108 to 2, with 2X abstentions  (see para.  9).The vot,ing was as
follows I

In...  fmu t Afghanistan, Albania,  Algeria, Angola,  Argentina, RnhmaB,
Bahrain, Bangladesh,  Darbados,  Benin, Bhutan, Bolivie,  Botswana,
Brazil,  Brunei Daru8salam,  Bulgaria, B u r k i n a  FRRO,  B u r u n d i ,
Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,  Central African
Republic, Chile,  Colombia, Congo, Cost.8 Rica, (.:i)t:H  cl’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,  Democratic  Yemen,  Djibouti,
Dominican  Republic, Ecuador, Eyypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Gambia,  Qerman Democratic  Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia,  Iran
(Islamic  Republic  of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, Lao
People’s  Democratic  Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan  Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mull, M a u r i t i u s ,
Mexico, Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Nepnl,  Nicarayua,
Niger, Nigeria,  Oman, Pakist.i\n,  Panam~~,  E’apu~ N e w  Gul.neH,  Peru,
Pnilippines, Poland,  Qatar,  Homania,  Rwanda,  SNW~,  Saucli Arabia,
Senega 1, Singapore,  S o m a l i a ,  Sri Lankn, S u d a n ,  SIII illume,
Swaziland, Syrian A r a b  Republic, Thailand,  ‘Sogo,  ‘Sunisia, Uganda,
IJkrainian Soviet  SocialisC Republic , Utliurl  CJ~ Sov it31 So~itil i sL
R e p u b l i c s ,  lfnited A r a b  Emirates,  United RCI~UIJI  I(* of ‘l’urlaillli~~,
IJrucJui~y, Venezuela,  Vie1:.  Nam, Yemen, Y11qor:1i\vi;1,  Z;\~IV,  ~aml)i:~,
Zimbabwe.

Against: United Kingdom of Gretit;  Brit.ain E~IICI  NOI I.he111 I I vl;11111,  lJ11i  t.stl
States  of America.

/ . . .



A/44/773
Engl ieh
Page 7

AkRtAhLnot Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Canada, Denmark,  Finland, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,
Japan,  Luxembourg, Netherlands,  New Zealand,  Nor way, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden,  Turkey.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Committee recommends  to the General Assembly the adoption  of Llie
following draft  resolutionr

its convintion  that a comprehensive  nuclear t.ast-ban treaty
is the highest priority step towards nuclear disarmament,

w its resolution 1910 (XVIII) of 27 November  J.9C3, in which it
noted  with approval the Treaty Banniny Nuclear Weapon  Tests in the Atmosphere,
in Outer Space and under Water  21 signed on 5 August 1963, and requested the
Conference  o f  the Eighteen-Nation  Committee on Disarmament  31 to continue with
a sense of urgency its negotiations to achieve the objectives  set forth in the
preamble to the Treaty,

D that, pending the conclusion  o f  a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban  treaty, the nuclear-weapon States  should suspend all nuclear
test explosions  through a n  agreed  moratorium  or unilateral  moratoria,

w that article  II of the Treaty provides a procedure for convening a
conference of the parties to the Treaty to consider  amendments  to the Treaty,

v that, in its resolution  42126 B of 30 November  1907, it
recommended  that the non-nuclear-weapon States parties to the Treaty formally
submit an amendment  proposal  to the Depositary  Governments wfth a view to
convening a conference at the earliest possible  date to consJder amendments  to
the Treaty  that would convert  it into a comprehensive  nuclear-test-ban  treaty
and that, by its resolution 43163  B of 7 December  1986,  it welr:omecI  the
submission  of such an amendment  proposal,

21 United Nations, Treaty Set-k%, vol. 400, N o .  6964.

31 The Committee on Disarmament  was redesignated the ConIYerellce  UII
Disarmament  a6 from 7 February 1984.

/ . . .



A/44/773
English
Page 8

Noting further that the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade, from 4 to
7 September 1989, supported the initiative to convene, as soon as possible in
1990, an amendment conference to convert the Treaty into a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty, 41

Considering that more than one third of the parties have requested the
convening of a conference to consider such an amendment, and that Depositary
Governments have announced their intention to comply with I:l~ei~  obligations
under the Treaty,

Convinced that such a conference will serve to strengthen the Treaty,

1. Recommends that a preparatory committee, open to aJl. parties to the
Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Uuter Space and
under Water should be established to make arrangements for the amendment
conference and that such preparatory committee should meet at United Nations
Headquarters from 29 May to 1 June 1990, followed by a one-week session of the
conference from 4 to 8 June 1990 and a second substantive session from 7 to 18
January 1991:

2. Recommends also that the costs of the amendment conference and its
preparatory committee should be shared among the States parties to the Treaty,
on the basis of the present scale of assessments of the United Nations;

3. Reauests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance
and provide such services, including  summary records, as may he required for
the amendment conference and its preparation:

4. Invites the amendment conference to transmit to the General Assembly
the documents it deems appropriate to keep the Assembly duly informed of its
ongoing work:

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its Eorty-fifth
session the item entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon
Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water".

41 See A/44/551-5/20870, annex.


