
















































UNITED
NATiONS

A

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/848
11'December 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 12

REPORT OF TRE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Renort of the Third Committee

Rauuorteur: Mr. Wilfried GROLIG (Federal Republic of Germany)

I. INTRODUCTIOR

1. At its 3rd ple:.ary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled "Report of the EconoItiic  and Social Council".

2. At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Third Committee
chapters of the Council's report 11 that were considered under the relevant items
of the agenda (see A/C.3/44/1).

3. T!ne Third Committee considered item 12 jointly with item 109 at its 48th. 50th
to 62nd meetings, from 20 to 22, 24, 27 to 29 November 19891 An account of the
Committee's discussion is contained in the relevant summary records
(A/C.3/44/SR.48, and 50-62).

4 . For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council for the year 1989
(A/44/3); &/

(b) Reports of the open-ended Working Group on the Drafting of an
International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and
Their Families (A/C.3/44/1 and 4);

11 To be issued as Official Records of the General Assemblv. Forty-third
Session. Supplement No. 3 (A/44/3/Rev.l).

89-32410 0329P (E)
-.

/ . . .
_-. -4



(c) Report of the Secretary-Qenerel on humanitarian assistance to refugees in
Djibouti (L/44/402) t

(d) Report of the Secretary-Qeaeral on the auaietance t o  refugeea and
dirplaced p e r s o n s  in M a l a w i  (A/44/403)r

(e) Report o f  the Secretary-Qeneral u U assistance to student refugees in
s o u t h e r n  A f r i c a  (A/44/404)1

(f) Report of the Secretary-Qeneral on the situation of refugees in the Sudan
(A/44/426)1

(9) Report of the Secretary-Qeneral on the etatus of the Convention on the
Prevention and Punirhmmt  o f  the Crime of  Qenocide ( A / 4 4 / 4 4 0 ) 1

(h) Report of the Secretary-Qeneral on the assistanca  to refugees and in
Somalia (A/44/462)1

(i) Report of the Secretary-Qeneral on the assirtance  to refugees and
re turnees  in  Eth iop ia  ( A / 4 4 / 4 8 2 ) ;

(j) Note by the Secretary-Qeneral on human rfyhts in southern Lebanon
( A / 4 4 / 5 7 3 )  J

(k )  Report of the  Secretary-Qeaeral on international co-operation in  drug
abtrre  c o n t r o l  ( A / 4 4 / 6 0 0  a n d  Corr.l)r

(1) Note by the Secretary-General on human rights in Iran (A/44/620) ;

(m) Report of the Secretary-General on human rights and mass exoduses
(~/44/622)~

(n) Note by the Secretary-General on human rights in Chile (A/44/635)1

(c) Report of the Secretary-Qeneral on the emergency assistance to voluntary
returnees and displaced persons i.? Chad ( A / 4 4 / 6 5 7 ) 1

(p) Note by the Secretary-General on human rights in Afghanistan (A/44/669);

(q) Note by the Secretary-General on human rights in El Salvador (A/44/671);

(r )  Let ter  dated  23  Decamber  1 9 8 8  f r o m  the  Charge  d ’a f fa i res  e.i. o f  the
Permanent Mission of El Salvador t:o the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General  ( A / 4 4 / 6 7 ) ;

(a) Letter dated 4 January 1989 from the Chargi d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of El Salvador to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/44/68)z

(t) Letter dated 9 January 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Hungary
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44 /71)1

/ . . .



A/44/048
English
Page 3

(u) Note vsrbale dated 27 January 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
the United Statea  of America to the United Nations addreased to the
Secretary-General (A/44/92)r

(v) Latter dated 7 February 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Paraguay to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/119)1

(w) Letter dated 29 February 1989 from the Permanent Representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/44/153)1

(u) L e t t e r dated 9 March 1989 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialiet Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General :A/4ci171)1

(y) Letter dated 24 April 1989 from the Permanent Representative of the
Byeloruasian  Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/44/239 and Corr.1))

(a) Letter dated 12 June 1989 f rom the Charg6  d’affairea  a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of El Salvador to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/44/320);

(aa) Letter dated 3.4 June 1989 from the Charge d’affaires  a.i. of the
Permanent Miseion of El Salvador to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/44/325))

(bb) Letter dated 28 June 1989 f rom the  Fsrmanent  Representative of Spain to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/355-6/20704);

(cc) Letter dated 3 July 1989 from the Charge d’affairen a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/44/367) t

(dd) Letter dated 5 July 1989 from the Permanent Representative of El Salvador
to the United Nations adtlreused the Secretary-General (A/44/377)$

(ee) Letter dated 5 July 1989 from the Permanent Representative of El Salvador
to the United Nations addressed to tho Secretary-General (A/44/378)1

Letter dated 27 June 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
El Salvador to the United Nations addressed to Secretary-General 

(yg) Letter dated i6 August 1989 the Permanent Representative of Costa
Rica to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Gsneral (A/44/466);

(hh) Letter dated 5 September 1989 from the Permanent Representative of China
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/504)$

/,*.-



A/44/840
tng1l.b
Pago 4

(ii) Lottor dstod 28 Beptember 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Chile
to tbo United Nationm  addreaead to tbo Secretary-Qeneral  (A/44/580)~

(jj) Letter dated 2 November 1989 from the Char&  d’affairea a.i. of the
Pormanont  l4imrion of Panmma to the Unite8 Nation6 addrerred  to the
8oarotary-Qoaoral  (A/44/706)1

(kk) kttor dated 14 Navrmber 1989  from the Charge d’affairem  a.i. of the
Poraanrnt nimmion of Chile to the United Nation6  addremsed to the Gecretary-General
( A / 4 4 / 7 2 8 ) :

(11) Lettor dated 24 October  1989 from the Deputy Permanent Representative of
the Imlamio Republio of Iran ta the United Nations addressed to the
Soaretary-C3eneral  (A/C.3/44/3)1

(wn) Letter dated 24 November 1989 from the Deputy Permanent Reprementatjve  of
the Imlamio Republio o f  Iran to the United Nation8  addreamed to the
8oaretary-Qeneral  (A/C.3/44/9).

5 . At the 48th meeting, on 20 November 1989, the Under-secretary-General  for
Uuman Rightm mado  an introductory mtatement  (mee A/C.3/44/8R.48),

6. At the l amm maoting, the Ipooial Rapporteur, Mr. Felix E r m a c o r a ,  introduced
blr toport on the l ituation of human rights in Afghanimtan (A/44/669,  annex)1 the
Speaial  Rapporteur, Mr. Fernando Volio Jiminea,  introduced his report on the
rituation  of human rightm in Chile (A/44/635, annex) and the lpecial
Ropromentative, Xr. Reynaldo Oalindo  Pohl, introduced him report on the rrituatfon
of human rigbtm in the Imlamic Republic of Iran (A/44/620, annex) (see
A/C.3/44/81.48).

7 . Almo at the dame meeting, the Chief o f  the lpecial Procedures Unit, Centre for
Ruman  Rights, introduced the report on the mituation of human rights in El 8alvador
(A/44/671, annox), on behalf of the Special Representative of the Commimsion  on
Uwn~ Rightm, Hr. Pamtor Ridruejo (mee A/C.J/44/8R.48).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOBAL8

A. ftu A/C.3/44/u

8 . By itm decision 431426 of 8 December 1988, the Qeneral Assembly, on the
recommendation  of the Third Committee  (A/43/868, pora. 108), decided to defer
conrideration  of the draft decimion  entitled “Programme of work of the Third
Comnittee**  (A/C.3/43/L.3) to i ts  forty-fourth nemsion. The draft  decision wan
before the Comnittee  in document AK.3144iL.2  and read am follows:

/ . . .



A/44/048
Ynglilrh
Page 5

“The  General Asrembly  decides to conrider  the following item6 every two
year8 beginning at itm forty-firat  reaaion:

“85. Querrtion  of  aging

8b90r Implementation of the World ProgrMae of Action concerning Disabled
Perron and the United Nations Decade of Disabled Peraonrr

“94.  Elimination of all forma of religiourr  intolerance

“95.  Human right8 and Ircientific and technological developments!

O@lO1.  Alternative approaches and way8 and mean8 within the United Nations
system for improving the effective enjoyment of human right8 and
fundamental freedom8 (with the exception of the gueetion rrlated  to
the right of development)“.

9. At the 60th meeting, on 29 November, the representative  of Morocco made a
statement in the course of which 8he proposed  an oral decision reading a8 followr:

“The Third Committee decides to establirh ,Irt its forty-fifth rermion a
working group which would be entrusted  with the task of studying the draft
decision contained in document A/C.3/44/L.2,  entitled ‘Programme of work of
the Third Committee’.”

10. Itatementm were then made by the reprerentativea of Iraq, the Nettierlande,
Austria, Ireland, Egypt, the Byelorusaian  loviet locialiut Republic, the Dominican
Republic, Algeria, AustroJia, the United Itate of America and Malta.

11. At the rrame meeting, in the light of the comments made by delegation8 on the
oral decision proponed  by the roprerentative of Morocco, the Chairman made a
rtatement  in the course of ,hich he proyoaed an oral decision  reading am follower

“The Third Committee recommenda to the Qsneral ABIUMI~~~  to deaido to
eotabliah an open-ended working group of the Third Conunittee at its
f o r t y - f i f t h  xeaaion, in order to consider appropriate ways and meana to
rationalioe  the programme of work of the Third Committee.”

12. At the 61st meeting, on 29 November, the Chairman of the Committee made a
rtatemrnt.

13. At the uune meeting, the representative of Morocco also rcade  a statement and
revised the oral decision she had proposed  at the 60th meetiaC, to read as follows:

"The  Third Committee decidas to eutabliuh st it.e forty-fifth seomion an
open-ended working group, to study, within the framework of the general
consideration of itn progranune  of work, the draft decision  contained in
document A/C.3/44/L.2."



A/44/848
English
Page 6

14. At the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, Uganda,
Romania and Brazil, as well as the Chairman of the Committee, made statements.

15. Also at the same meeting, on the proposal of the Chairman, the Committee
decided to recommend to the General Assembly that it defer consideration of the
draft decision to its forty-fifth session, and that, when considering its
organisation of work for the forty-fifth session, the Third Committee would have
before it the text of the draft decision entitled "Programme of work of the Third
Committee" contained in document AX.3144lL.2  and the summary records of the
meetings at which the draft decision had been discussed (see para. 79, draft
decision).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.62

16. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the represea:ative of Zaire, on behalf of
Alaeria. Botswana. Burkina Faso, Chad, the Conuo. C&e d'Ivoire, Djibouti. Ectvnt,
BthioDia. the Gambia, -Guinea, Kenva, Lesotho. Liberia, the Libyan Arab JamaharivaL
Madauascar. Malawi, Mali, Morocco, Niaeria, Rwanda. Swaziland, Zaire, Zambia and
Zimbabwe, introduced draft resolution AK.31441L.62 entitled "Assistance to
refugees and displaced persons in Malawi*'. Subsequently, Riger and the PhilioDines
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

17. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AK.31441L.62  without a vote (see para. 78; draft resolution I).

18. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United States of America and Ethiopia.

19. The representative of Malawi also made a statement.

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.64

20. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Zaire, on brhalf of
Alaeria, Bah,,ain. Banuladesh, Barbados, Benin. Botswana. Brazil, Brunei Darussalem.
Burkina Fe d ,-aso, Burundi. Cameroon, Car,e V r e the Central African ReDublic, Chad.
China, Colombia. Comoros, the Corlpo. Costa Rica, Ciite d'Ivoire, Cuba. Cyprus,
Democratic Yemen. Diibouz  the Dominican Reoublic,  Ecuador. Eovot, Euuatorial
Guinea, EthiODia. Gabon, the Gambia. Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, India,
Indonesia. Iraa, Jamaica, JaDan, Jordan, Kenya. Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,

.
yan Arab Jamahiriva, Madagascar, Malawi, Malavsia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,

Morocco, the Niaer. Niseria, Oman, Pakistan, the Phil&Dines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
Se eaa , Sierra Leone. Snl inuauore,  Somalia. Sri Lank& the Sudan, Suriname,

.
5 azlla da Syrian Arab ReDubliC.  Thailand, Toao. Tunisia. Turkey, Trinidad and
T:baoo.nthet$ted  Arab Emirates. Urusuav, Yemen, Yuuoslavia, Zaire. Zambia and
Zimbabwe, introduced draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.64 entitled "Humanitarian
assistance to refugees and displaced persons in Djibouti".

21. At the 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.64  without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution II).



A / 4 4 / 8 4 8
English
Page 7

22.. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement (see A/C.3/44/SR.60).

23. A statement was also made by the representative.of Djibouti.

D. Draft resolution A/C!.3/44/L,65

2 4 . At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Zaire, on behalf of
Al eri2 Cameroon, Chad, China. Democratic
KamDuchea. Democratic Yemen. Diiboutir EuvDt. Guinea, Indonesia, Jordan. Kenva.
Kuwait, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriva. Malawi. Malaysia. Mali. Morocco. Niaeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Oatar. Romania. Saudi Arabia, Seneaal, Somalia, Sri Lanka. the
Sudan. Swaziland. the Svrian Arab ReDublic.  Thailand, Tunisia, Ucanda, the United
Arab Emirates, the United Renublic of Tanzania, Yemen, Yuaoslavia, Zaire and
Zambia, introduced draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.65 entitled "Situation of refugees
in the Sudan". Subsequently the PhiliuDines and Turkey joined in sponsoring the
draft resolution.

25. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.65  without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution III).

2 6 . After the adoption of the araft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement (see A/C.3/44/SR.60).

E. Draft.resolution  A/C.3/44/L,66

2 7 . At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Zaire, on behalf of
Alaeria, Chad, China. Colombia, Costa Rica, e ocD m rrtic Yemen, Djibouti, the
Dominican Reuublic, East. Iraa. Jordan, Lesotho, the Arab Jamahiriva,
Malavsia. Mali. Mauritania. Morocco, Gatar, Saudi Arabia. Seneaal. Somalia,
Sri Lanka, the Sudan. the 'Svrian Arab ReDublic, Thailand, Tunisia. Uaanda. the
United Arab Emirates. Yeme% Zaire and Zambia introduced draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.66  entitled "Assistance to refugees in Somalia", and orally revised it
by replacing, in operative paragraph 4 "as soon as condit'ions  permit" by "as soon
as possible". Subsequently, Banciladesh,  Brunei DarussalamL_ the Gambia, Iran
(Islamic Reoublic of). Kuwait. Liberia, Malawi, the uer, Nigeria. Oman. Pakistan,
the Philippines. Sierra Leone, Sinaaoore.  Turkey and Yuaoslavia joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

2 8 . At the 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.66, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 78, draft
resolution IV).

29. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement (see A/C.3/44/SR.60).

3 0 . A statement was also made by the representative of Somalia (see
A/C.3/44/SR.60).

/ . . .



A/44/848
English
page 8

P. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.70

31. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Zaire, on behalf of
Algeria. Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon. CaDe Verde. the Central African Republic,
Chad. Chile, China, Colombia, Comorosc the Conao, Costa Rica, C&e d'Ivoire.
Democratic KamDuchea, Djibouti. Euvot, Gabon, Guinea. Haiti, Indonesia, JaDan,
Malawi, Mali. Morocco. the Biaer, Niaeria, the Philippines, Rwanda, Seneaal,
Somalia, the Sudan. Thailand. Toao, Tunisia and Zaire, introduced draft resolution
WC.3/44/L.70  entitled 'Assistance to voluntary returnees and displaced persons in
Chad”.

32. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.70  without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution V).

33. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement (see AX.31441SR.60).

34. A statement was also made by the representative of Chad (see A/C.3/44/SR.60).

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.71

35. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Zaire, on behalf of
Afahanistan, Alaeria, Anaola, Araentina, Banaladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana. Burkina Faso, Burundi, the Bvelorussian Soviet Socialist Reoublic,
Cameroon, ColombiaJ the Congo. C&e d'Ivoire. China, Cuba, Cvvrus. Democratic
Yemen. Diibouti, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador. Euvot. Equatorial Guinea,
Rthionia, the German Democratic Reoublic, Ghana, Guinea. Guvana, India, Indonesia,
Iran. (islamic ReDublic of). Jamaica. JaDan. Kenva. the Lao Peoole's Democratic
&public. Lesotho. Liberia, Madaaascar, Malawi. Malavsia, Mali, Mauritania,
Morocco, Mosambiaue, Nicaracrua, the Niaer, Niaeria, Pakistan. Panama, Romania,
Rwanda, Seneaal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Trinidad and Tobauo. Uoanda,
the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. the Union of Soviet Socialist RePublics,
the United Reoublic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen. Yuaoslavia, Zaire. Zambia and
Zimbabwe, introduced draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.71 entitled "Assistance to
refugees and returnees in Ethiopia". Subsequently, Czechoslovakia. Monaolia and
the PhiliPPines joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

36. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.71  without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution VI).

37. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement (see A1C.31441SR.60).

38. A statement was also made by the representative of Ethiopia (see
A/C.3/44/SR.60).

/ l . .



A/44/848
English
Pago 9

H. Daft resolution A/C.3/44/L.74

39. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Wexiso, on behalf
of Aloeria, Araentina, Banaladesh, Bolivia. Brazil, Colombia. Cuba, Ecuador,
Greece, India. Italv. Mali, Mauritania, Mexico. Morocco. Nicaraaua. Pakistan. Peru.
the Philipnines, Portuaal, Rwanda. Seneaal, Tunis& Turkey and YUCfOSlaV

.
la,

introduced draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.74  entitled "Measures' to improve the
situation and ensure the human rights and dignity tf all migrant workers".

40. The statement submitted by the Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153
of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly on programme budget implications
of the draft resolution was contained in document A/C.3/44/L.92.

41. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.74  without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution VII).

42. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of the Federal
Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and
Egypt made statements (see A1C.31441SR.60).

I. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.75

43. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Morocco, on behalf
of Austria, the Bahamas. Belaium, the Bvelorussian Soviet Socialist ReDUbliC,

.
Canada. Costa Rica,Cvnrus. Denmark. Finland. Pfancec the German Democratic;
ReDublic, Germany, Federal Renublic of, Greece. Guinea-Bissau, Icelaz$$ ItalvL
Janan. the Libvan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxsmbouru, Mauritania. Mexico. Mongolia.
Morocco, Norwav, New Zealand, the wiooines. Poland. Portuaal, Samoa. Se?eaaA 1,
Spain, Sweden and the United Kinadom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
introduced draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.75  entitled "World conference on human
rights". Subsequently, the Dqminican ReDublic, Ecuador,  El Salvador. the Gambia,
Guatemala, Jamaica. Malta, Toao, the United States of America and Yuaoslavia joined
in sponsoring the draft resolution.

44. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AX.31441L.75  without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution VIII).

J. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.78

45. At the 58th me?tik,g, on 28 November, the representative of Zaire, on behalf of
A

Alaeria, Ancrola. the Bahamas, Barbados, Botswana. Brazil, Burkina Faso, t&+$na, Cote
1 . .Ivoire. Cuba, Cvnrus, Diibout i. Euvot, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia. Kenyp,

.Lesotho. Liberia. the Libvan Arab Jamahiriva, Madaaascar. Malawi, Malav&&, Mall,
&orocco, the Niaer. Nigeria, Seneaal, Sierra Leone. Somalia. Swaailand, Trinidad
and Tobaao, Uaanda. the YnltedanTanzania,  Yuaoslavia, Zaire. Zambia and
Zimbabwe, introduced draft resolution A/C.3.44/L.78 entitled "Assistance to student
refugees in sc*lthern  Africa". Subsequently, Austra!ia, Costa Rica. Colombia,
CsmeroonL  the Dominican ReDublic,  EthioDia,  Guinea-Bissau. Panama, Pakistan and the
Philinnines joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

i . . l



46. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.78  without a vote (see para. 70, draft rerolution ;:X).

47. After the aCop 3x1  of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
Staton o f  &nerica mr .le a  s t a t e m e n t  ( s e e  A/C.3/44/SR.60).

IC. vn A/C.3/44/L.7Q

48. At the 58th melting, on 26 November, the representative of the Bvelorussian
* also on behalf  of  P_oland, introduced draft resolution*
A/C.3/\4/L.7?  entitled Wkatus of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment
of the Crime  of Genocide”.

49. At its 60th moet!.ng, or. ?Q November, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3.44/L.79  without a vote (see pare, 78, draft resolution X).

L. D&t resw A/C.3/44/La5Q

50. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Sweden, on behalf
0.: Auatrie.~ CanaBs.CostaRica.2

-dlv,~enva. JD.Mococco,  the NetherlanBa.
~%r~.‘il’* SW- and the Unitea of Great Bru

.crn Irelau, I. .ntroduced  draft losolution A/C.3/44/L.80  entitled “Summary or
arbitrary executions”. Subsequent!y,  m j0inbd in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

51. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3.44/L.60  without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution XI).

52. At the 58th meet ing,  on 28 Novem)rer, the representative of Francb,  on behalf
o f  ALlstria. BelahygL  Can&a, Col9mbD~- CSte 4’ Ivoire, C.ypilus,Wk.

Federal Reoublic of, Greece, w the kkkhclEllan88,  Norwa WA.
Seneael,  u t h e  vdom o f  G r e a t  B&,,?i.n

W.‘.fBtn Ireland,  the United States of  &19&xr I,Jm and m, i-traduced
draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.81  entitled “Question of enforced or involuntary
disappearances” and orally revised it as followsr

(a) Operative paragraph 4, which re 11

0wr welcome% the progress made in the preparation of the draft
declaration on enforced or involuntary disappearances”

was transferred into the preambular section as the penultimate preambular paragraph
and was revised to read as follows:

/ . . .



A / 4 4 / 0 4 0
English
Rage 11

“WBbcOminQI  the progr #sa made in the preparation of the draft declaration
on enforced or involuntary disappearances”J

(b) Operative paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 wore renumbered accordingly.

5 3 . At  its 60th meet ing,  on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.81,  as  orally revised, without a vote (see para 76, draft
resolution XII).

N. D r a f t -

5 4 . At tk, 58th meeting, on 28 November, t’se representative of Italy, on behalf of
L co c a .  Dtmj,mgk.  F-e, Gernw. Few

gf. Greece, Ir#n the v Portuclal.
Blpain, Sweden, and the s-oi,
introduced draft resolution  A/C.3/44/L.82  entitled *‘Situation of human rights in
Afghanistan”. Subeeqaently,  m joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

5 5 . At the 60th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Italy made a
statement in the course of  which he oral ly revised the draft  r e s o l u t i o n  a s  fol lows!

(a) In the f irst  preambular  paragraph,  “their” was inserted b e f o r e
“Additional Protocole”, and “I and II the:-eta”  was deletedt

(b) In operative paragraph 6, “to treat all fightsrs as combatants within the
meaning of** was deleted and replaced by ‘*to reopmt’.; “‘their” was inserted before
“Additional Protocole” and ‘*I and II ther.eto” was Ce’.et x?.

5 6 . At  the aame meeting, the Committed adoptec  draft resolution A1C.31441L.62,  as
orally revised, without a vote (see pa ‘a. 79, draft resolution XIII).

5 7 . At the 58th mesting, on 28 November, the representative of Austria, on behalf
of -Australia,- DmlmL6.L

Germany.  Fe-c o f ,  -IcelanB, t h e  B
N.~w Zew the pb.U&I&les, SV&,BQ and the w of Great
Britain--, introduced draft  resolution A/C.3/44/L.83  entit led
“Human rights in the administration of justice”. Subsequently , Colombia and sen\oa
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

5 6 . At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3,44/L.03  without a vote (see pare. 70, draft resolution XIV).

/ . l .



A/44/040
English
Pago 12

p. DtaitrsaalutlonA/C.3/44/L.84

59. At the 58th mooting, on 28 November, the Chairman of the Committee introduced
draft raaolutioa A/C.3/44/L.84  entitled “The situation of human r+&s in the
Irlamio  Republic of Iran**, submitted on the basis of informal consultationa.

60. At the wne mooting, the Committee adopted draft resolution AX.31441L.84
without a vote (SW para, 76, draft resolution XV).

61. At the 58th mesting,  on 28 November, the repreaeatative of Canada, on behalfc1 ’o f  QBtanil,, coaa Co&~rvoire.

Zraland, the E and the sltates o<
w introduced  draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.85  entitled **Human right8 and maaa
exoduaea”. Subsequently, w joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

62. At its 60th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AX.31441L.65  without a vote (see para. 70, draft resolution XVI).

R. DraFt-

63. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Peru, on behalf of
CoVco, Pm Urw an.3-, introduced draft

resolution A/C.3/44/L.66 entitled “Situation of human rights and fundamental
freedoms in El Salvador”, which read as followet

*‘l)uided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 2/ the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights, Iz/ the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights, 91 and the humanitarian rules laid down in the Geneva

21 Resolution 217 A (III).

21 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex,

/ ..I



A/44/84”
English
Page 13

Conventioae  of  12 Augurt 1949 41 and Additional Protocol II theroto, of
1977, s/

@‘12pBplv alarmed that, despite the encouraging signr offered by the
me&lag6  held by the Qovernmeat of El Salvador and the Fretnte  Farabundo Marti
para l a  Liberacidn  National, the aggravation  of the conflict and tha
rtarrurgence  of violence have seriously affected the civilian population,

“D that it is the duty of the Governments of all Member States
to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms to fulfil the
obligations which they have asnumed  under the relevant international
inatrumenta,

Nm that, since 1980, it ha6 been erprersing  its deep concern at
the situation of human right6 in El Salvador, aa indicated in its renolutioa
43/145 of 8 December 1968,

@‘w Commiarrion  on Human Righta resolution 32 (XXXVII) of
11 March 1981, fi/ in which the Commission decided to appoint a special
reprerentative on the  s i tuat ion  of human rights in El Salvador, and aubrequent
resolutiona, including Commission rerolution 1989/68  of 8 March 1989, I/ in
which it extended the mandate of the Special l?&tpresentatjve  for another year
and raquerted him to reprrt to the Oeneral  Axrembly at it6 forty-fourth
session and the Commir~~ion  at  itr forty-sixth Belaion,

“v that an armed conflict of a non-international character
continue8 to airt in El Salvador in which the partiea  involved are under an
obligation to apply the m i n i m u m  s t a n d a r d s  o f  protection o f  human rights  and
humanitarian treatment provide@ for in article 3 common to the Qeaeva
Convention8 of 1949 and in Additional Protocol II thereto, of 1977,

"WY m because,  au the Special  Representative indicate8 in hix
report, the number of politically motivated serious violation8 of kuman rights
continues to increaset in particular, there has been a resurgence  of torture
and an i n c r e a s e  in  arrestx, and summary  executions,  dirsppesrances,
abductiona, attacks on the economic infrastructure and violations of the
humanitarian rules of war have remained at disturbing levolr,

41 United Nations, matv, vol .  75 ,  Nos .  970-973.

51 A/32/144, annex II,

l o .
see Pfficialrd8 O f  t&m cQd1, 1982. s-

(E/1981/25 and Corr.l), chap. XXVIII, sect. A.

21 Lub.. 1989,.2 (E/1969/20),  chap. II, sect. A.

/ *..



A / 4 4 / 8 4 8
Englirh
Page 14

.

I@- because many sources con rue to attribute summary
execution6 and other serious violations of hut.an rights to the so-called
‘death aquada’,

*@v by the collective assassination in cold blood, on
16 November, of the Rector, five professors  and two members  of the service
staff of the Central American University,

“e because, as a consequence of the current
rr’tuation,  acts of intimidation and harassment have been carried out against
the Church hierarchy, political and trade union leaders, members of
humanitarian organitations  belonging to var ioua  churches and the headquartars
of political parties and trade unions, as well as against relatives of members
of the armed force8 and civil servants  and members  of their families,

“m that there has been no progress this year in the judicial
case of the &asaasination  of Monsignor Romero, which took place in 1960, and
that it is a matter  of urgency that those  responsible for many other recent
violations of human rights, including the asasaaination  of the Minister in the
office of the President and the fatal collective attack on a trade union
f e d e r a t i o n ,  b e  ident i f i ed  and  pun i shed ,

I’m that  the strict fulfilment of the commitments assumed by the
Government of El Salvador under the ‘Procedure for the establishment of a firm
and lasting peace in Central America’ (Esquipulas  I I  a g r e e m e n t )  B/ a n d  t h e
Joint Declarations of the Central American Presidents eigned in Costa Rica,
El Salvador and Honduras, will contribute to the promotion, respect and
realisation  of human rights and fundamental freedoms in that country,

“R&G~aniaing the importance of the fact that, in the agreements adopted
at Tela, Honduras, 91 the five Central American Presidents exprsss their firm
belief in the necessity of an immediate and effectrve end to hostilities in
El Salvador and therefore strongly urge the Frente Farabundo Marti pare la
Liberacidn  National (FMLN) to  carry  out  a  constructive  d i a l o g u e  for  the
purpose of achieving a jubt and lasting peace and, equally strongly, urge tho
Government of El SalvaQor to arranqe, with f u l l  guarantees and in the spirit
of section 2 of the Esquipules  agreement, the integration of members of the
FMLN into peaceful and institutional life,

- - - -

81 A/42/521-S/19085, annex. For the printed text,  8ee Wial RaG9.rds  of

P/ A / 4 4 / 4 5 1 - 5 / 2 0 7 7 8 .

/ . I .



A / 4 4 / 0 4 0
English
Page 15

I, it neceasatv to return to the agreements of
15 September and 18 October 1989 signed in exico and at San Jor6, Costa Rica,
respectively by the Qovernment  of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Marti
pare la Liberacidn  National whereby, inter, they undertook to maintain a
process of ongoing dialogue not permitting of unilateral withdrawal, in order
that they might, in an effort to arrive at a negotiated understanding, manage
to end the armed conflict by political means as soon as poseible,  promote the
democratisation of the country and reunify Salvadorian rociety and also agreed
on the need to create international verification mechanisms appropriate to the
characteristics and realities of El Salvador to monitor the implementation of
the agreements reached by them,

“ma, under Additional Protocol II to the Geneva
Conventions, the wax-wounded and war- in jured must  bo respected and protected,
their evacuation by the International Committee of the Red Cross so that they
may receive the medical care that they need must not be impeded and no one may
be punished for carrying out medical activities compatible with medical
e th ics , regardless of the circumstances and the beneficiaries of such
activities,

“w that a negotiated political solution of the Salvadorian conflict
can be cut  short if external forces do not support the resumpt ion o f  the
dialogue but instead seek in different ways to spur the intensification or
prolongation of the war , with ensuing grave effect8 on the situation of human
rights and the possibilities of economic recovery in El Salvador,

“1. m the Special Rellreaentative  for his report U/ on the
situation of human rights in El Salvador and endorses the recommendations
contained therein, while requesting tho Special Representative to update them
in the light of the serious eventa which are taking, place in that country1

“2 * m its deepest dismay at the aggravation of the conflict, the
resurgence of violence, the bombings and the indiscriminate use of high-power
heavy weapons in densely populated areas, resulting in numerous civilian
casualt ies  and substantial  material  damaget

“3. -es &&Q i t s  s e r i o u s  c o n c e r n  a t  t h e  s y s t e m a t i c  a t t a c k s  o n  t h e
c o u n t r y ’ s  economic infrastructure, which seriously undermine the present and
future enjoyment of important economic, social and cultural rights by the
Salvadorian people1

“ 4  .v to the Governrrent  of El Salvador and the Frente
Farabundo Marti para la Liberaci6n  National  to put an immediate end to the
armed conflict and to work for a resumption of the currently suspended
dialogue in order to reach agreements which would lead to the definitive
cessation of all hostilities within an agreed timeframe;

J,Q/ A / 4 4 / 6 7 7 .

/ . * .



A/44/848
English
Pago 16

"5. m the partier to the conflict to guarantee respect for the
international standards applicable to an armed aonflict  of a non-international
oharaoter, in particular, the protection of the civilian population and the
war-wounded, to make possible the irmnediate evacuation of the war-wounded and
war-iajurod, whether civilians or combatants, in order that they may receive
the medical care that they need and, furthermore, to co-operate with
humanitarian organisations  working to alleviate the suffering of the civilian
population in any part of the country in which such organisations are
operating  and requests that medical and health personnel shall under no
oircumatancoa  be penalised f o r  carrying o u t  their activitiest

“6. -ta the expressed readiness of the Secretary-General  to
holp bring about, as a first stage in a political solution, an immediate
agroomont on tho cessation  of the armed conflict, and his decision taken last
Soptombor to accopt tho invitation from the aovernment of El Salvador and the
Fronto  Farabundo Marti para la Liberacidn  National  that he or his
roproaontativea should participate in their process of dialogue and
negotiation, since all this forma part of the mission of good offices which he
ia porforming to assist the Central American Governments in their efforts to
aohiovo tho objoctivos set forth in the Eaquipulaa II agreement)

“7. Exlunamslaoita..iirm for the efforts of the
Socrotary-General of the Organisation  of American States to bring about a
roaumption of tho political dialogue in El Salvador)

“8.v to tho parties to the conflict to respect and
guarantee the security of the staff and official premises of internstional
agencies1

“9. m the brutal aaaaasination  of the Rector and seven other
members  of the Central American University and hopes that the Qovornment of
El Salvador will fulfil its pledge to carry out an immediate investigation and
to punish those responsible for such an abominable crimer

“ 1 0 .  s-&RR c o - at the persistence of and increase in
politically motivated serious violations of human rights such as summary
exocutiona, disappearances, torture an& abductions;

“11.  -sea a l s o  i t s  deep at the persistence of and increase
in the alleged activities of the so-called ‘death squads’, which are operating
with impunity in El Salvador)

“12. w its  appeal to  a l l  S ta tes  to  r e f r a i n  f rom in terven ing  in  the
internal situation of El Salvador and, instead o f  seeking in different ways to
spur the prolongation and intensification of the armed conflict, to stimulate
dialogue until a firm and lasting peace is attained;

” 13 l limm-mlits9.rofoun- at the fact that the capacity of
the Salvadorian judicial system continues to be extremely unsatisfactory,
despite the efforts made by the Government to determine the responsibility of

/ . . .



A/44/040
English
Page 17

the instigators of some  violations of human rights, and consequently urges the
competent authorities to accelerate the a&option of the measures  necessary for
ensuring the effectiveness of the system and its comqatibility  with the
commitments made in the field of human rights)

“14. Renewe to the competent orgaab and organisations of the
United Nations system  that , on the baaie of Commiseion on Human Rights
resolution 1989/66  of 6 March 1989 and its own resolution 431145  of
8 December 1988, they provide such advice and assistance as the Government of
El 6alvador may request in order to enhance the promotion and protection of
human rights and fundamental freedoms]

“15. v the Commission on Human Rights at i t s  for ty - s ix th  se s s ion
to consider the situation of human rights in El Salv.Jor and the mandate of
its Special Representative, taking into account the ovolut-on of the situation
of human right8 in that country and the developments linked to the fulfilment
of all the agreements signed by the Central American Presidents within the
framework of the regional peace process and the agreements concluded by the
Government of El Salvador and the Prente Farabundo Marti pare la Liberacidn
National in Mexico and Costa Rica!

“16. Decadsa  to keep u n d e r  consideration, dur ing  .its for ty - f i f th  seusionE
the situation of human rights and fundamental freednms  in El Salvador in order
to re-examine thin situation in the light of the information provided by the
Commibsioa on Human Rights and the Economic and Soc!al  Council.”

At the 61st meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Peru, on behalf of
introduced a

revised draft resolution (A/C.3/44/L.86/Rev.l)  entitled “Situation of human rights
and fundamental freedoms in El Salvador” and informed the Committee that Icaxlp&

the m Nor~m and
m had joined in sponsoring the revised draft  r e s o l u t i o n ,

65. At the same meeting, the represent.ative of Peru ore*-ly revised the draft
resolution by replacing, in operative paragraph 16, “Spatial Rapporteur”  by
“Special Representative”, and by replacing “appropriate” before “measures” by
‘@immediate”.

66. Aleo at the same meeting, the representatives of the United States o f  America
and India made statements. Statements  were also made by the representatives of
Mexico and Peru (see A/C.3/44/SR.61).

67. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/44/L.I6/Rev.l, a8 orally revised, by a recorded vote of 96 to 1, with
34 abstentions (see pars. 78, draft resolution XVII). The voting was a8
followst a/

&.l/ The representative of  Indonesia indicated subsequently that his  vote
should have been I ecorded as an abstention and not in favour.

/ ..a



A/44/848
English
Page 18

Infavaurt Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Belgium, Btmin,  Bhutan, Botswana, Rrasil,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorvssian  loviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Cnechoslovakia,  Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gambia, Grrman Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Oreace, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonerik,  Iran (Isbanlic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica. Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar,  Malawi, Malta,  M e x i c o ,  MongcIia,  Moaembique,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,  Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal.. Qatar, Rwanda, Gaint Lucia,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Suriname, Sweziland,  Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, ‘Sunirria,  Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Vnion of Soviet
Soc ia l i s t  Republice, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanaania,
Uruguay, Veneauela,  Viet Nam, Yugoslav ia ,  Zambia ,  Zimbabwe.

AsmiMlil El Salvador.

Matainincrt Algeria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Brunei Darusaalam,
Cameroon, Cent.-al  African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, C8te
d’Ivoire, Equatorid Guinea, Ghana, Honduras, Israel, Kuwait,
Malaysia, Maldi-ea,  Mali, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman,  Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Thailand, United States of America, Ysmen, Zaire.

66. After the adoption of the draft resolut!sa, the representatives of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Chile, Ghana, Honduras, Nicaragua
and El Salvador made rtatements (see A/C.3/44/SR.61).

8. Drafr:-an-

69. At the 58th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Mexico, on behalf
of mAuelrFP l.Cube,dWGFeece.bLJluxembom
i!dudc~Norws.u.  th% -da. Porw and &&an, introduced draft resolution
A/C,3/44/L.87  entitled “Situation of human rights in Chile”,

70. At the 61st meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Mexico macle a
statement in the course of which she revised the draft resolution as followsr

(a) In operative paragraph C, “5or  all the Chilean people, including the
indigenous peoples, especially” was inserted after “fundamental freedoms”j

( b )  Operative paraqraph 11 was redrafted to reaP. as  fol lowsr

/ . . .



A/44/040
English
P a g e  19

~~11.  m at the persistence of violations
of human rights end fundamental freedoms in Chile involving, malia, cases
of death, torture, ill--treatment and the ‘wu’ cam, aa d e s c r i b e d
by the Special Rapporteur in his report”.

71. The representatives o f  Chile and Ecuador made statemente  (see  A/C.3/44/SR.61).

72. At the came meeting, the Conrmittee  adopted draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.87, as
ora l ly  revimed, by a recorded v o t e  of 80 to 2, with 50 abstentions (see para. 78,
draft resolution XVIII). The voting was att follows: u/

In: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Auutria, Barbados,  Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Cape Verde, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Csechoalovakia,  Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Ethiopia,
F i j i ,  Fin land ,  F r a n c e , Gambia, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Quyana, Hungary ,  Ice land ,  I n d i a ,  Ire land ,  I ta ly ,  Jamaica,  Kenyar
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Liberia, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua,  Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Rwanda,
Samoa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaailand, Sweden, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
S o v i e t  Socialist  R e p u b l i c s , United Kingdom of Great Britain end
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanaania, Uruguay,
Veneauela,  Viet Nmm, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Acrainatt Chile, Qatar.

Abut Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brasil, Brunei Darussalam,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Cdte
d’Ivoire, Democratic Kampu:hea,  Djibouti, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel,
Japan, Jordan, Lesotho, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Morocco,
Myantnar,  Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,  Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sudan,
Suriname, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United States
of America, Yemen, Zaire.

73. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of El Salvador, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Japan, the United
States of America, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Colombia and Honduras (see
A/C.3/44/SR.61).

f2/ Subsequently, the representative of Uganda indicated that had he been
present he would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A/44/848
English
Page 20

T. Draft resolution A/c.3/44/I*.aa

74. At the 59th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Malaysia, on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77,
introduced draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.88  entitled "Enlargement of the Commission
on Human Rights and the further promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms".

75 . At the 62nd meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Malaysia, on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of.77,
made a statement (see A/C.3/44/SR.62).

76 . At the same meeting; the Committee adopted draft resolution A1C.31441L.88  by a
recorded vote of 133 to 3 (see para. 78, draft resolution XIX). The voting was as
follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan,;  Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, Gambii, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Tana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet lam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Acainst: Israel, Japan, United States of America.

77 . After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Australia (also on
behalf of Canada and New Zealand), France (on behalf of the States Members of the
European Community), Sweden (also on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and
Norway), the United States of America, Iraq and Japan (see A/C.?;44/SR.62).

/ . . .



A / 4 4 / 8 4 0
English ~
Page 21 I

III. BECOMMRNDATIONS  OF TIiE THIRD COMMITTEE

78. The Third Committee recormnends  to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Assistance to refuaees,and  displaced Dersons in Malawi

The General Assemblv,

Recalling its resolutions 42/132 of 7 December 1987 and 43/148 of
8 December 1988 on assistance to refugees and displaced persons in Malawi,

Bavinu considered the report of the Secretary-General u/ on assistance
to refugees and displaced persons in Malawi,

Ravinu examined that part of the report of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees U/ regarding the situation of refugees and
displaced persons in Malawi,

Gravely concerned at the continuing serious social and economic impact of
the massive presence of refugees and displaced persons, as well as its
far-reaching consequences for the country's long-term development process,

Annreciatinq the important measures that the Government of Malawi is
taxing in order to Provide shelter, protection, food, education aud health and
other humanitarian services to the thousands of refugees and displaced persons,

Recoqnizinq the heavy burden placed on the people and Government of
Malawi and the sacrifices they are making in caring for the refugees and
displaced persons, given the country's limited social services and
infrastructure, and the need for adequate international assistance to enable
them to continue their efforts to provide assistance to the refugees and
displaced persons,

Exnressina its anureciation  for the assistance rendered by Member States,
the various organisations  of the United Nations system, the Office of the
United Nations Righ Commissioner for Refugees and other international

l-J/ A / 4 4 / 4 0 3 .

u/ Official Records of the General Assemblv,  Forty-fourth Session,
Suuulement No. 12 (A/44/12).

/ . . .



A/44/048
lnglirh
Pago 22

otgaaimation8  and intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations in
l upporl: of the refugee programme in Malawi,

a in u the findings and recommendations of the inter-agency
mission to Malawi, ,U/ particularly on the ,I leed to strengthen the country’s
aocio-economic infrastructure ia order to enable it to provide for the
isunediate  humanitarian relief requirements of the refugaw and displaced
peraons, as well as the long-term national development needs of the country,

BacoaniPinP  the need to view refugee-related development projects within
local and national development plans,

1. Taksa  note of the report of the Secretary-General on the situation
of refugees and displaced persons in Malawi)

2. Commanaa the measures that the Government of Malawi is taking to
provide material and humanitarian assistance to refugees and displaced
bersons, in rpite of the serious economic situation it faces, and stresses the
need for additional resources to lessen the impact of the presence of refugees
and displaced persons on the country’s long-term development processt

3. .se8 i t s  ~to the Secretary-General, the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, donor countries and intergovernmental
and non-governmental orgt diaations  for their efforts to assist the refugees
and displaced persons in Malawi]

4. m-we co- at the serious and far-reaching consequences
of the massive presence of refuyees and displaced persons in the country and
its implications for the long-term socio-economic development of the whole
coutryj

5. m to Member States, the appropriate orqans, organisations and
bodies of the United Nations system, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organiaationa and the international financial institutions to continue
providing the Government of Malawi with the necessary resources for the
implementation of development assistance projects in regions affected by the
presence of refugees and displaced persons, as well as for the development
programmes now being implementedr

6. &~q&s&~  the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to mobiliae
the netmssary financial and material assistance for the full implementation of
ongoing projects in the areas affected by the presence of refugees and
displaced persons and programmes now being implemented)

fi/ A / 4 3 / 5 3 6 ,  paras.  l - 1 3 .

/ . . .



A / 4 4 / 0 4 0
English
Page 23

7 . Recrueata the High Commissioner to continue co-ordination with the
appropriate snecialised agencies in order to consolidate and ensure the
continuation o f  essential services to the refugees and displaced persons in
their settlementat

8 . m the Secretary-General to report to the General Aeaembly at
i t s  for ty - f i f th  se s s ion , through the Economic and Social Council, on the
implementation of the present resolution.

DRAPT RESOLUTION II

Humanitarianaasiatance  to refuaeea  andrsoaa
in-

m its resolutions 421126  o f  7 December 1987 and 43/142 o f
0 December 1988 on humanitarian assistance to refugees in Djibouti, as well as
al l  i ts  previous resolutions on this  quest ion,

v t h e  repor: of the Secretary-General on humanitarian
assistance to refugees in Djibouti, U/

paeplv  concetned  by the recent inflow of over thirty-five thousand
externally displaced per sons, which has added considerably to the burden
already being carried by Djibouti in respect of refugees \n the country,

u that Djibouti has been considered one of the least developed
countries and that the recent inflow of large numbers of externally displaced
persons and the continued presence of refugees have severely strained the
already inadequate social and economic infrastructure,

v that the present situation has required the diversion of
scarce resources from development Lo emergency relief and precautionary
m e a s u r e s ,

s the determined and sustained efforts made by the Government
of Djibouti to cope with the growing needs of  re fugees  and externally
displaced persons,

KE the steps taken by the Government of Djibouti,
in close co-operation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
to implement appropriate and lasting solutions with respect to the refugees
and externally displaced persons in Djibouti,

LQ/ A / 4 4 / 4 0 2 ,

/ . . .



A/44/048
English
?age 24

$ that over six thousand refugees have been
granted settlement and integration in Djibouti, despite t‘le physical,  social
and economic obstacles that the country faces,

s the assistance  provided by Member States, the specialised
agencies, intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations  and voluntary
agencies to the ongoing relief and rehabilitation progrnmmes  for the refugees
and externally displaced peraons in Djibouti,

1. Takss of the report of the Secretary-General on humanitarian
assistance to refugees in Djibouti and appreciates the efforts of the Un1tod
Nation6  High Commissioner for Refurjees  to keep the situation under constant
review8

2. Welcomea  the steps taken by the Government of Djibouti, in close
co-operation with the High Commissioner, to implement appropriate and lasting
solutions with respect to the refugees and externally displaced persons in
Djibouti)

3. resses its apprec~ to Member States, the npacialiaed
aoencies, intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations and voluntary
agencies for their assistance to the relief and rehabilitation programmes for
the xafugees and externally displaced persons in Djibouti)

4, m the High Commissioner to intensify his efforts to mobilise, on
an emergency basis, the necessary resources to implement lasting solutions
with respect  to the refugees in Djibouti and the increasing inflow of
externally displaced porsonsr

5. w all Member States, the organisations of the United
Nations system, the specialised agencies and intergovernmental and
non-governmental organisations to continue to support the determined and
sustained efforts made by the Government of Djibouti to cope with the urgent
needs of refugees and externally displaced persona and to implement lasting
solutions as regards their situation?

6. Reauea_ta  the See-etary-General  to report to the Genoral Assembly at
i t s  for ty - f i f th  se s s ion , through the Economic and Social Council, on the
implementation of the present resolutlon.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

wl&lg its resolution 431141  of 8 December 1988 and its other previous
resolutions on the 81triation of refugees in the Sudan,

/ . ” .



A/44/048
English
Page 25

v the report of the Secretary-General J,l/ on the
implementation of resolution 431141  and the report of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, MI

v for the efforts made by the Government of the
Sudan for the reception of the refugees and the provision of protection,
shelter, food, health, education and other humanitarian stirvices to the ever
increasing number of refugees who have been crossing the borders into the
Sudan since the early 1960s,

Recoaniaincr the heavy burden shouldered by the people and the Government
of the Sudan and the sacrifices they are making to host more than one million
refugees, who constitute approximately 7.5 per cent  of the  total population of
the country,

-ad that the great majority of the refugees have
spontaneously settled in various urban and rural communities throughout the
country and are thus sharing with the indigenous population the already meagre
resources and services,

sve CQP(~BUI  at the devastating and far-reaching effects of
the  s u c c e s s i v e  ca lami t ie s , ranging from the drought in 1984 to the torrent ia l
rains and floods and locust infestations in 1988, that have afflicted the
country, thus exacerbating the already deteriorating situation resulting f rom
the presence of this great number of refugeea,

m co- that the Government of the Sudan, berides  dealing
with the difficult prevailing economic and social problems, has the additional
task of taking care of more than 1.5 million persons displaced by successive
calamities  and civi l  strife in the south,

ww the efforts undertaken by the Government of the Sudan to
init iate a wide-ranging rehabil i tat ion progrennne  to redress  the damsgeu
incurred by the natural disasters,

mu those serious circumstances, which render the Government of
the Sudan lee8 prepared than ever to meet  i ts  obligations to it8 own people,
and the more serious consequences, which affect the capacity of the Government
of the Sudan to receive and grant asylum to additional numbers of refugeee,

its m for the assistance rendered by Member States
and intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations in support of the
rsfugee  programme in the Sudan,

1. V of the report of the Secretary-General on the situation
of refugees  in the Sudan)

JJ/ b/44/426.

/ . . .



A/44/848
Bnglieh
Page 26

2, w of the report of the United Nation8 High
Commlrrioner  for Refugees and, in particular, of the new trend8 in the area of
rofugao aid and developmentt

3.r to the Secretary-General, the High
Commhrionor,  donor countries and intargovernmental  and non-governmental
organisat ions for  their efforts to rssirt the refugees  in the Sudan)

4. g at the serious and far-reaching consequences
of the prereme of maesive numbers of refugees on the security and stability
of the counti*y  and the overall negative impact on it8 basic infrsstructure and
socio-economic developments

5. )rlaosv at the shrinking resources available
for refugee programme8 in the Sudan and the serious consequences of this
situation on the Country’8 ability t0 Continue to hO8t and a88i8t refugee81

6. -(I to Member States, the appropriate organs, organisations and
bodies of the United Nations system, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organisations and the international financial institutions to provide the
Qovernmont  of the Sudan with the necesrary  reeourcea for the implementation of
development assistance projects, in particular those prepared by the United
Nations Development Programme, in the regions affected by the presence of
refugees;

7. w the Secretary-General to mobilise the necessary financial
and material assistance for the full implementation of ongoing project8 in the
area8 atfected by the presence of refugeeer

8. w the High Commissioner to continue co-ordination with the
appropriate specialised agencies in order to consolidate and ensure the
continuation of eesential service8 to the refugee8 in their settlement8 and to
explore way8 and means to extend assistance  to spontaneous refugees)

9. ma the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
i t s  f o r t y - f i f t h  8e8sion, through the Economic and Social Council, on the
implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Assistance.--

-Am,

u its resolution8 351180  of 15 December 1980, 36/153 of
16 December 1981, 371174 of 17 December 1982, 38188 of 16 December 1963,
39/104 of 14 November 1984, 40/132 of 13 December 1985, 41/138 of
4 December 1986, 421127  of 7 December 1967 and 43/147 of 8 December 1988 on
the question of assistance to refugeea in Somalia,

/ . . I



A/44/648
Englirh
Page 27

v the report of the Secretary-General on assi8tance to
1 afugees  in Somalia, ILB/

VM~ about the heavy burden that ha8 been placed on the
fragile economy of Somalia by the continuing presence of large numbers of
refugee8,

Tw of the circumstances that have made it necessary for the
Office of the United Nations High Commis8ioner  for Refugees and the World Food
Programme to suspend temporarily their food and other humanitarian aarirtance
programmes for refugees in the north-west di8tricts  of Somalia,

dr:m- by the resultant serious food shortage8  that have
occurred in the refugee settlement8 in the north-west districts of Somalia,

m of the fact that Somalia, arr a least developed country, does
not poorer8 the economic or financial capacity to fill the gap created by the
temporary suspenoion  of humanitarian assistance programme8 for refugee8 in the
north-weet diatricte of Somalia,

m of the fact that Somalia, a8 a least developed country, doe8 not
have the capacity to provide humanitarian assistance f rom it8 limited
resources,

m the deleterious effect of the refugee presence on the
environment,  which has resulted in widespread deforestation, soil erosion and
the threat of destruction to an already fragile ecological balance,

1. Tak4rf B of the report of the Secretary-General;

2. m8 I the measures that the Government of Somalia is taking to
provide material and humanitarian assietance  to refugee8,  in spite of it8 own
limited resources and fragile economyt

3, -raPPreciU to the Secretary-General, the United
Nationa  High Commiesioner  for Refugees, donor countries and intergovernmental
and non-governmental organiaationa for their efforts to assist the refugees in
Somaliat

4. v the Office of the United Nation8  High Commiseioner  for
Refugee8 and the World Food Programme to resume their assistance proqr8mmes
for the refugees in the north-west districts of Somalia a8 soon as possibler

5. RR~~Q&S  the Secretary-General, in c1080  co-operation with the
Office of the High Commissioner, the World Food Programme and the donor
cornmuni  ty, to launch an interim assistance programme that would ensure  that

J&/ A /44 /462.

/ . . .



A/44/840
Bag1  irh
Page 28

l seontial food aid and other humanitarian supplier continue to reach the
rofugeo rottlrmmnta  in the north-we%t districts  of Somalia unti l  such t i m e  aa
a more pormanrat arrangement can be made)

6, m t o  Member  S t a t e s , international organisations and voluntary
agoncior  to give full 8upport to the Secretary-General in the launching’ of the
proporuod  intorim  aaairtance programmer

7, m to Member States, international organirations  and voluntary
agoncior  to rondot maximum and timely material, financial and technical
aaaistance  to onable the Qovernment  of Somalia to implement the project8 and
activities identified in the report of the 1987 inter-agency mis8ion  annexed
to the roport of the Secretary-General to the General Assembly at its
forty-second sosrion n/ as the baa18 for a comprehensive  programme of action
relating  to both the humanitarian and the developmental needs of refugeeat

8. a the pertinent organisations of the United Nation8 eyetern,
namely the Food and Agriculture Organisation  of the United Nations, the
International Labour Organisation, the World Health Organisation, the United
Nationr Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and the United
Nations Children’8 Fund, aa well aa the United Nationa  Environment Programme
and the World Food Programno, to prepare, in consultation  with the Government
of Somalia, detailed project documentation for the implementation of those
projectr and activit ies  identif ied in the report  of the Secretary-Qeneral  zQ/
a8 priority endeavours for a comprehensive programme of action)

9. v the United Nations Development Programme, the United
Nations Environment  Programme, the United Nation8  Sudano-Sahelian Office and
the Food and Agriculture Organisation  of the United Nations to continue and
expand their activities in Somalia, in co-operation with the Government of
S o m a l i a ,  and to p r o t e c t  and rehabil i tate ita damaged environments

10. m the important role that non-governmental organisations
are playing with regard to programmes for the care, maintenance and
rehabilitation of refugees, particularly in activities related to small-scale
development projects, and in the fields of health and agriculturer

11. w the United Nation8 High Commissioner for Refugees and the
Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme to apprise the
Economic and Social Council at it8 8eCOnd regular session of 1990  of ths
progress m8de in their respective field8 of responsibility with regard to
those provision8 of the prerrent reeolution which concern them)

1p/ A /42 /645 .

2Q/ W., paras. 5 5 - 6 6 .

/ . . .



A/44/848
English
Page 29

12. Reauesta the Secretary-General, in consultation with the High
Commissioner and the United Nations Development Programme, to submit to the
General Assembly at its forty-fifth session a report on the progress achieved
in the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTIOB V

Assistance to voluntary returnees and disulaced oersons in Chad

The General Assembly,

Recallinq its resolution 431143 of 8 December 1988 on emergency
assistance to voluntary returnees and displaced persons in Chad, as well a8
all its previous resolutions on this question,

Takina note of the report of the Secretary-General on emergency
humanitarian assistance to voluntary returnees and displaced persons in
Chad, 2.&/

DeeDlY  concerned about the persistence of the harmful effects of the
natural calernities  that are'compounding the already precarious food and health
situation in Chad,

Considerinq that the large number of voluntary returnees poses serious
social and economic problems for the Government of Chad,

Considerina also that the return of displaced persons in the northern
region poses serious resettlement problems for the Government of Chad,

Bearina in mind the many appeals made by the Government of Chad for
international assistance to the voluntary returnees and displaced persons in
Chad,

1. Endorses the appeals made by the Government of Chad for humanitarian
assistance to the voluntary returnees and displaced persons in Chad;

2. Reiterates its acoeal to all States and intergovernmental and
non-governmental organisations to support, by generous contributions,,.,the
efforts being made by the Government of Chad to assist and resettle the
voluntary returnees and displaced persons;

3. Takes note with satisfaction of the action undertaken by the various
organizations  of the United Bations system and the specialised agencies with a
view to mobilising humanitarian assistance to the voluntary returnees and
displaced persons in Chad;

. a/ A/44/657.



A/44/040
English
Page 30

4 . w the United Nation0  High Commissioner  for Refugees and
the United Nationr  Dirartcr Relief Co-ordinator to mobilise humanitarian
arriatanao  to the voluntary returneor  and dieplsoed perronr  in Chad)

(a) The Secretary-general to continue his efforts to mobilise special
humanitarian arristance  for the resettlement of displaced pereons  in the
northorn  region of Chad)

(b) The international community to rupport the efforta made by the
Qovetnment of Chad to implement the programmes for repat iating and resettling
the voluntary returnee8 aud displaced pereonr in Chad]

6. m the Secretary-General, in co-operation with tho United
Nationa High Conunissionor for Refugeea  and the United Nation8 Disaster Relief
Co-ordinator, to  repor t  to  the  Qeneral  Aesembly  st i t s  fo r ty - f i f th  seasion on
the implementation of the present rerolution.

DI(AFT RESOLUTION VI

to  rm rew in &hiQl&

n all ita resolutions,  in particular resolution 431144  of
0 December 1988, as well as all those of the Economic and Social Council, on
aaairrtance  to displaced persona in Ethiopia,

Tgw of the report of the Secretary-General on aesietance to
r e f u g e e s  and returnees in Ethiopia,  2.21

Havinm the report of the United Nations High Commiraioner  for
Refugees, U/

Recoqniah  the increasing number of refugees and voluntary returnees in
Ethiopia,

Qaeplv  coma about the massive flow of refugees and voluntary
returnees into the country and the enormous burden this has placed on the
country’s  infrastructure and m e a g r e  r e s o u r c e s ,

Wconca~neaBllan  about the grave consequences this has entailed for
the country’s capability to grapple with the effects of the prolonged drought,

221 A / 4 4 / 4 0 2 ,

/ * . .



A/44/040
English

., Page 31

&ym,t&  of the heavy Borden  placed on the government of Ethiopia and of the
need for adequate assistance to refugees, voluntary returnees and victims of
natural dilraetera,

1. &&.mm& the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees and intergovernmental orgaoiaatione and voluntary agencies for their
assistance in mitigating the plight of the large number of refugees and
voluntary returnees in EthiOpi8Jb

2. Ar>aeals  to Member State8 and to international organisations and
voluntary agencies to provide adequate material, financial and technical
assistance for relief and rehabilitation programmes for the large number of
refugees and l’oluntary  returnees in Ethiopiat

3. Recrueata the High Commiseioner  to continue his effort8 in mobilising
humanitarian assistance for the relief, rehabilitation and resettlement  of
voluntary returnees and the 18rge number of refugees in Ethiopian

4. m the Secretary-Qeaeral, in co-operation with the High
Commissioner, to apprire  the Economic and Social Council, at it6 second
regular sension of 1990, of the implementation of the pre8ent resolution and
to report thereon to the general Assembly at its forty-fifth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

w the  permanent validity of the principles and
standards Bet forth in the basic instruments regarding the international
protection of human rights, in particular in the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, a/ the International Covenant8 on Human Rights, 241 the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Diecrimination a/ and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women, a/

2% Resolution 217 A (III).

zLQ/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

251 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex,

261 Resolution 34/180,  annex.

/ . . .



A/44/040
English
Page 32

Beerina the principles and standards established within the
framework of the International Labour Organisation and the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation  and the importance of the
task carried out in connection w i t h  m i g r a n t  w o r k e r s  and their  famil ies  in
other specialised agencies and in various organs of the United Nations,

s that, in spite of the existence of an already established
body of principles and standards, t h e r e  i s  a  n e e d  t o  m a k e  f u r t h e r  e f f o r t s  t o
improve the situation and ensure the human rights and dignity of all migrant
workers and their families,

n its resolution 341172 of 17 December 1979, in which it decided
t.r; establish a working group open to all Member States to elaborate an
international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant
workers and their families,

Recsllina its resolutions 35/198 of 15 December 1980, 361160  of
1 6  D e c e m b e r  1981, 371170 of  17 December 1 9 8 2 ,  38/86  of 1 6  D e c e m b e r  1983,
391102 of 14 December 1984, 401130  of 13 December 1985, 411151  of
4 December 1986, 421140  of 7 December 1987, and 431146  of 8 December 1988, by
which it renewed the mandate of the Working Group on the Drafting of an
International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant
Workers and Their Families and requested it to continue its work,

I&yim the progress made by the Working Group at its eighth
inter-sessional meeting, held from 31 May to 9 June 1989, and at the current
rreaaion of the General Assembly, from 26 September to 6 October 1989, during
which the Working Group continued with the second reading of the draft
convention,

1. of the two most  recent reports of the
Working Group on the Drafting of an International Convention on the Protection
of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Their Families n/ and, in
particular, of the progress made by the Working Qroup  on the drafting, in
second reading, of the draft convention)

2. m the Secretary-General to entrust to the Centre for Human
Rights of the Secretariat the technical revision of the text of the articles
of the draft convention that have been approved so far by the Working Group in
second reading, with a view to ensuring uniformity of terminology and gender
and to harmonising the vers ions  in t!.e official languages of the United
Nations, bearing in mind General Assembly resolution 411120  of
4 December 1986, snd to transmit the results of this technical revision to
Governments as soon as possible, and at least one month before the next
meeting of the Working Group, to be held in 1990J

a/ A/C.3/44/1  a n d  A/C.3/44/4.

/ . . .



A/44/040
English
Page 3 3

3. &&.&a that the Working Group shall hold 8 meoting of two weeks*
duration in New York, immediately after the first regular rereion of 1990 of
the Economic and Social Council, with a view to completing the remaining
articles  anA considering t h e  results of  the technical  revision of  t h e  draft
conventionr

4. J&~J.&Q the Secretary-General to transmit to Governments the two,
moat recent reports of the Working Group so as to enable the members of the
Working Group to finish the drafting, in second reading, of the draft
convention during the meeting to be held in the rrpring  of 1990, as well aa to
transmit the results obtained at that meeting to the Qeneral  Assembly so that
it  m a y  take a decis ion during i ts  forty-f i f th sessions

5. s the Secretary-Qeneral to transmit the above-mentioned
documents to the competent organa  of the United Vations  and to the
international organisations  concerned, for  their  information,  80 as  to rnable
them to continue their co-operation with the Working group)

6. m the Secretary-General to do everything possible to l naure
adequate Secretariat services f o r  the Working Qroup f o r  the timely fulfilment
of its mandate during the meeting to be held immediately after the firrt
regular session of 1990 of the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

w the progress made by the United Nations over the past twenty years
toward8  achieving its goal of promoting rosgeat for human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction aa to raae, sex, language or
religion,

v that there are still area6 in which further progress could be
m a d e  towards this  gl,al,

C. that, in view of the progrere  made and the new ohallenger
that lie ahead, it would be appropriate to conduct a review of what has be t
accomplished through the human rights programne and what remains to be done,

1. m the Secretary-Qeneral to seek the views of Governments,
specialised agencies, non-govervnental organisations and United Nation8 bodies
concerned with human rights regarding the deeirabilitj of convening a world
conference on human rights for the purpoee of dealing at the highest level
with the crucial questions facing the United Nations in connection with the
promotion and protection of human rightrt

/ l . .



A/46/810
Lnqlirh
Page 34

2 . m the Jecretary-Qeneral  t o  submit  to the Qeneral
Aanembly  a t  itr for ty - f i f th  realrioa a  rsport  on  th i r  queotiont

3. w to coneider  the report of the SecretaryA3eneral at it8
for ty - f i f th  se s s ion .

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

w it8 resolution 43/149 of 8 Deamber 1988,  in which it,
walia, roguesto*  the United Nation8  High CommisrJxmr  for Refugees, in
oo-operation  with the Secretary-General, to aontinue  to organise and implement
an effective programno  of educational and other appropriate arsistanoe  for
rtudent refugeor  from South Africa and Namibia who had been granted asylum in
Botswana,  Lerotho, Swarilaod  and Zambia,

Raying.. the report of the Secretary-Qeneral  on errsistancr  to
rtudent refuqeer  in southern Africa, J&/

c that aomo  of the projects rectirended in the
report continue to be ouccesafully  implemented,

u wim that the discriminatory  and repreaaive policier that
aontinue to be applied in South  Afriaa cause a aontinued and increaainq  influx
of student refugeerr into Botswana, Lerotho, Swasiland and Zambia,

mu of the burden placed on the limited finanaial, material and
administrative  reaourcea  of the hoat countries by the increasing number of
rtudent refugeea,

s the effort8  of the hoot countyiee  to deal with their student
refugee populations , with the asrrilrtanae  of  the international  community,

OY the report of tho Secretary-C3enerol#

2. fl to the Qovernment8  of Botewanb, Lerotho,
Swamilend  and Zambia for granting asylum and making educational and other
facilities available to the student refugeerr, in rpite of the prerrure that
the continuing influx of those refugee8 exert8  on facilitier in their
countriest

/ I..



A/44/848
Enqlirh
Oaqe 35

3. o m to the Qovernmentr of Botlwana,
Lesotho,  Swasiland  and Z8mbia  for the oo-operation that they have l xtanded to
the United Nation8  High COmmi88iOner for Refugee8 on matter8 ooncerning  the
welfare of the refuqeest

4. Woteawith the financial and material  rupport provided
for the 8tUdent  refugees by Member State8, the Offiae of the United Rations
High Commiseioner  for Refugee8 , other bodier  of the United Nation8  system  and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organiabtionar

5. m the High COlwni88iOner, in ao-operation with the
Searetary-Qeneral, t,o aontinue  t;o organise and implonent  an effeative
programme of educational and other appropriate a8818tanae  for 8tudent refugee8
from South Africa and Namibia who have been granted alrylum  in BOtllWIna,
Lesotho, Swasiland  and Zambia)

6, w all Member State8 and intergovernmental and non-goveramental
organisation8 to continue contributing qenerourly  to the a88irtanco proqranune
for 8tudent refuqee8,  through financial rupport of the regular programner  of
the High Commissioner an1 of the project8 and programmee, including unfunded
projects, which were rubmitted  to the Second International Conferonae on
A88i8tanCe  to Refugee8 in Africa, held at Qeneva from 9 to 11 July 1984)  Zp/

7. -9 urgad all Member State8 and all interqovornmontal  and
non-governmental orqanioation8  to arsirt  the countrier of a8ylum materially
and otherwire  to enable them to continua  to dircharqe  their humanitarian
obligations toward8 refugee81

8. m to the Offioe of the United Nation8 High Comirrioner  for
RefUqee8, the United Nation8  Development Proqrmmne and all other aompatwit
United Nationo bodies, a8 well a8 other international and non-govoramontal
organisations, to continue providing humanitarian and development arristance
80 a8 to facilitate and expedite the rettlement of student refugee8 from South
Africa who have been granted arrylum in Bote#wana, Lesotho, Swariland and Zsnbia;

9. m agencier  and programmes of the United Nation8 system to
continue co-operating with the Secretary-Qeneral and the High Conmir8ioner in
the implementation of humanitarian programmes of assirtance for the student
refugee8 in southern Africa;

10. m the High Commissioner, in co-operation with the
Secretary-Qeneral, to continue to keep the matter under review, to apprire  the
ECOnOmiC  and  SOCi8.'.  COUnCil,  a t  i t8  second  regular  8eJ88iOn O f  1990,  Of  the
Current  8tatu8 of the progrMlme8 and to report  to the Qeneral  Asrombly  at  i t8
forty-lifth session on the implementation of the present re8olution.

Zp/ See  A/CONF.125/1,  pars .  33 .

/ .a.



A/44/848
Enqlirh
Page 36

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

w it8 reso lu t ions  40/142 of 13 December 1985, 411147  of
4 December 1986, 421133  of 7 December 1987 and 431138 of 8 December 1988,

v Commi88ion  on Human Right8 resolution8 1986118  of
10 March 1986, 3p/ 1987125  o f  1 0 M a r c h 1987, a/ 1988/28 of 7 March 1988, ;12/
and 1989116 of 2 March 1989, s/

w it8 resolution 260 A (Ill) of 9 Deaember 1948, by whiah it
approved and propored for  rignature, ratifioation  or acaerrion the Convention
on the Prevention and Punishment  of the Crime of Qenocide,

that genocide 18 a crime that
violate8 the norm8 of international law and run8 counter to the spirit and
aim8 of the United Nations,

Canvincad  that international co-operation 18 necessary in order to
liberate mankind from 8uch an odious crime,

v that okimes of genocide have CaU8ed great losrer to mankind,

w nou of the report of the Seoretary-Qeneral,  a/

1. Once.soain the crime of qenocider

2 . m the neceesity of international co-operation in order to
liberate mankind from such an odious crime)

3, Wth s that m a n y  E?ate8 have ratif ied the
Convention on the Prevention and Punishment 02 the Crime of denoaide  or have
acceded thereto)

IQ/ v of >
rJo. 2 (E/1986/22),  chap,  II,  8cct. A.

W we, ;Ls87. S<R,Q&AW&  No. 5 and corrigendum (E/1987/18  and Corr.l),
chap. II,  sect.  A.

xi/ xb.i.d*e 198B.wntNo, and corrigendum (E/1988/12  and Corr.11,
chap. II,  sect.  A.

n/ xhidl*,  u891B (E/1959/20) ,  chap .  II ,  sec t .  A.

U/ A / 4 4 / 4 4 0 .

/ . . .



A/44/848
biq1i8h
Page 37

4, mjta that implementation of the provi8ion8 of
the Convention by all States 18 neeea8ary  for the prevantion and puniohment  of
the arime of  genoaide,

5. u.L &o8e Water which have not yet beaome  parties to the
Convention to raLify it or accede thereto witho& further delay,

6, Invitea the Secretary-Qenrral to rubmit to the Qeneral  A88embly  at
it8 forty-fifth 8earion a report on the stratus  of the Convention.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

n the provilrionr  of the Univerral Declaration of Human
Rightr, a/ in which it 18 stated that every human being ha8 the right to
l i fe,  l iberty and security of  personr

s to the provirionr  of the International Covenant on Civil
and PolitiaaJ Rightr, a/ in which it 18 8tated that every human being ha8 the
inherent r ight  to l i fe, that thi8 right rhall  be protected by law and thst no
one 8hall be arbitrari ly  deprived of  hi8 l i fe,

w it8 rerolution 36/22 of 9 November 1981, in whiah it condemned
the praatioe  of runmary  or arbitrary l recutionr, and it8 re8olutionr  371182  of
17 December 1982, 38196  of 16 December 1983, 39/110 of 14 December 1984,
40/143 of 13 December 1985, 41/144 of 4 December 1986, 421141  o f
7 December 1987 and 431151 of 8 December 1988,

w at the continued ocaurrenoe  on a large 8calo  of summary or
arbitrary execution8, including extra-legal executiond,

u Economic and Social Counci. resolution 1984/50 of 25 May 1984
and the safeguard8 guaranteeing protection of the right8 of there facing the
death penalty annexed thereto, which resolution wa8 endorred by the Seventh
United Nation8 Congre88 on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of
Offender8 in it8 resolution 35, U/

s the close co-operation eetabli8hed  between the Centre for
Human Rights, the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Branch of the Centre

3.21 See -United* (Mw.r.~aa on of Crime
o f  Of.&m&r8, u, 2 6  wt-6 Sopor r e p o r t  wd b v  the

secrrtarist  (United Nation8 publication, Sale8 No. E.86.IV.l),  chap. 1, sect. E.



A / 4 4 / 8 4 8
Englirh
Page 38

for Social Development LLnd  Humanitarian Affair8 a: the Secretariat and the
Committee on Crime Prevention and Control with regard to the elaboration of
the prinaipler  on the effeative prevention and inve8tiyation  of arbitrary and
rummary  execution8, including extra-legal executions,

w the adoption of Economic and Social Council resolution 1989165
of 24 May 1989 aontaining the Principle8 on the Effeotive Prevention and
Investigation of Extra-legal Arbitrary and Summary Executions,

w the ndoption of Economia and Social Counoil rseolution
1989/64 of 24 May 1989 entitled “Implementation of the safeguards guaranteeing
protection of the right8 of those facing the death penalty” and the
recommendation8 contained therein,

Convinm of the seed for appropriate action to combat and eventually
eliminatu  the abhorrent practice of summary or arbitrary executions, which
represent8 a flagrant violation of the most fundamental human right, the right
t o  lifd,

1. @ the large number of summary or
arbitrary executions, including extra-legal executions, that continue to take
place in various parts of the world)

2 . Demsnas that the practice o f  rummary  or arbitrary execution8 be
brought to an end)

3. v to Qovernmont8,  United Nation8 bodierr,  the
8pecialiaetl  agencie8, regional intergovernmental organiaationr  and
non-governmental organisations to take effective action to oombat and
eliminate summary or arbitrary executions, including extra-legal erecutionst

4 . BBALUUM  Economic and Social Council re8olution 1982135  of
7 May 1982, in which the Council decided to appoint a special rapporteur te
conrider  t h e  questions related to 8ummary  or arbitrary executionat

5 . m Economic and Social Cou;~il  resolution 3988/38 of
7 May 1988, by which the Council decided to renew the mandate of the Special
Rapporteur, Mr. 6. Amos Wako, for two year8# while keeping the annual
reporting cycler

6 . w a l l  G o v e r n m e n t s ,  in  perticular those  which  have  conai8tently
not responded to communications transmitted to them by the Special Rapporteur,
and all others concerned, to co-operate with and assist the Special Rapporteur
8 0  t h a t  h e  ma&  c a r r y  o u t  h i 8  m a n d a t e  e f f e c t i v e l y )

7 . I&.- the Special Repporteur, in carrying out  his mandate, to
respond effectively to information that comes btifore him, in particular when a
summary or arbitrary execution is imminent or threatened, or when 8UCh  an
execution has recently occurred] and, furthermore, to promote exchange8 of
views between  Governments and those  who provide reliable information to the

/ . . .



A/44/646
Englirh
Page 39

Q39cial Rapporteur, where the Special Rayyorteur connidera  that ruoh excheayerr
of  bformation might b e  ueefult

8. Welcdmea  the recommendations made by the Special Rapporteur in hir
report8 381 to the Commission on H u m a n  Right8 a t  it8 f o r t y - f o u r t h  and
forty-fifth aelraions with a view to eliminating aumnary or arbi t rary
executioner

9. m Qovornments, international organioationr  and
non-governmental organisation8 to organfoe  training  programmer and rupport
grojeots with a view to training or eduokting  law enforcement officerr in
human right8 i88uer connected with their work, and appeal8 to the
international communi ty  to  support endeavour8 to that end,

10. Conaiders that the Special Rapporteur, in carrying out hir ma&ate,
8hould continue to 8eek and receive information from Governmenta,  United
Nations bodies, rpooialised agencies, regional intergovernmental organisations
and non-governmental organisation8 in consultative stature  with the Economio
and Social Council, a8 well as medical and forenrrio  expert81

11. m the Secretary-Qen8ral  to continue to provide all aeoeerary
arrirtanoe  to the Special Rapportrur 80 that he may effectively carry out hi8
mandate J

12. s t h e  Seoretary-goneral  t o  aontinuo t o  use h i 8  be8t
OndeaVOUr8  in oa8e8  wherr the minimum  rrtandard of legal aafegUard8  provided
for in article8 6, 14 and 15 of the Intrrnational  Covonant on Civil and
Political Right8 a/ app88r not to have boon respectedr

13, w the COmmi88iOn  on HUman  Rightr  at  i t8 forty-8iXth  84588iOn,
on the b&d8 of the report of the Special Rapportour  to be prepared in
conformity with Economic and Sooial Counoil  rerolution8  1982135, 1983136,
1984135, 1965140, 1966136, 1987160  and 1988138, to make rraomnendations
concerning appropriate aotion to oombat and eventually l limiaate the abhorrent
practice of 8ununary  or arbitrary e~roution8.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

on Qf m or ina

m it8 re8OlUtiOn 33/173 Of 20 December 1976 Concerning
di8appeared  perlOn8, and ita rerrolution 431169 of 8 December 1988 on the
queetion of enforced or involuntary disappearancee,

;ip/ EVCN.411988122  and Add.1 and 2 and E/CN.4/1989/25.

/ . . .



A/44/848
English
Page 40

Deenlv concerned about the persistence, in certain cases, of the practice
of enforced or involuntary disappearances, and about the fact that, in certain
cases, the families of disappeared persons have been the target of
intimidation and ill-treatment,

Exnressina  its profound emotion at the anguish and sorrow of the families
concerned, who are unsure of the fate of their relatives,

Convinced of the need to continue implementing the provisions of its
resolution 331173 and of the other United Nations resolutions on the question
of enforced or involuntary disappearances, with a view to finding solutions
for cases of disappearances and helping to eliminate such practices,

Welcominq the progress made in the preparation of the draft declaration
on enforced or involuntary disappearances,

Bearina in mind Commission on Human Rights resolution 1989/27 of
6 March 1989, 331

1. EXDreSSeS  its aDureciation to the Working Group on Enforced or
Involuntary Disappearances for its humanitarian work and to those Governments
that have co-operated with it;

2. Welcomes the decision of the Commission on Human Rights, at its
forty-fourth session, to extend for two years the term of the mandate of the
Working Group, as defined in Commission resolution 20 (BXXVI) of
29 February 1980, 371 while maintaining the principle of annual reporting by
the Working Group;

3. Also  welcomes the provisions made by the Commission on Human Rights
in its resolution 1986155 of 13 March 1986 s/ to enable the Working Group to *
fulfil its mandate with greater efficiency:

4. ADDealS  to the Governments concerned, particularly those which have
not yet replied to the communications addressed to them by the Working Group,
to co-operate fully with the Working Group so as to enable it, with respect
for its working methods based on discretion, to peri'orm  its strictly
humanitarian role, and in particular to reply more quickly to the requests for
information addressed to them by the Working Group;

5. Encouraaes the Governments concerned to consider the wish of the
Working Group, when such a wish is expressed, to visit their countries, thus
enabling the Working Group to fulfil its mandate even more effectively;

6. Extends its warm thanks to those Governments which have invited the
Working Group and requests them to give all necessary attention to its
recommendations:

371 See gfficial Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1980, Sunnlement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1980/13 and Corr.1 and 2). chap. XXVI, sect. A.

/ . . .



A/44/040
English
Page 41

7. m to the Qovernments concerns8  to take stepa  to proteat the
f a m i l i e s  of  d i s a p p e a r e d  p e r s o n a  against  rny intimit¶ation or  i l l - t r sa tment  of
which they may be the target)

0. wm the Commission on Human Rights to continue to study this
guestion as a matter of priority and to take any 8tep it may deem necessary to
the pursuit of the task of the Working Qroup when it considers the report to
be submitted by the Working Group to the Commission at its forty-sixth sessionr

9. Renewe reau to the Secretary-General to continue to provide
the Working Group with all necessary facilities.

/ . . .



A/44/848
English
Page 42

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

Situation of human riahts in Afqhanistan

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a/ the International Covenants on
Human Rights 241 and the accepted humanitarian rules as set out in the Geneva
Conventions of 12 August 1949 38/ and their Additional Protocols of 1977, B/

Aware of its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms for all and resolved to remain vigilant with
regard to violations of human rights wherever they occur,

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations
they have freely undertaken under the various international instruments,

Recallinq  Economic and Social Council resolution 1984137 of 24 May 1984,
in which the Council requested the Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights
to appoint a special rapporteur to examine the situation of human rights in
Afghanistan, with a view to formulating proposals that could contribute to
ensuring full protection of the human rights of the inhabitants of the country
before, during and after the withdrawal of all foreign forces,

Recallina also its relevant resolutions as well as the resolutions of the
Commission on Human Rights and the decisions of the Economic and Social
Council,

Recallina in oarticular Commission on Human Rights resolution 1989/67 of
8 March 1989, 331 by which the Commission decided to extend the mandate of its
Special Rapporteur for one year-and requested him to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-fourth session on the situation of human rights in
Afghanistan,

Emnhasiziaq  the relevance of the Agreements on the Settlement of the
Situation relating to Afghanistan, concluded at Geneva on 14 April 1988, fl/
which constitute an important step towards a comprehensive political solution,

Welcominq the completion, on 15 February 1989, of the withdrawal of
Soviet troops from Afghanistan in accordance with the Geneva Agreements,

a/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

39/ A/32/144, annexes I and II.

a/ Official Records of thn Security Council, Forty-third Year, SuDDlement
for April, Mav and June 1988, document S/19835, annex I,

/ . . .



A/44/848
English
Page 43

B the co-operation that the Afghan authorities have extended
to international organisations, in particular to the Special Co-ordinator for
Humanitarian and Economic Assistance relating to Afghanistan, the specialised
agencies of the United Nations, the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees and the International Committee of the Red Crotm,

v the interim report of the Special Rapporteur on the
situation of human rights in Afghanistan, u/ which remains a matter of great
concern even af ter  the withdrawal of Soviet troops,

w i t h  b e e r ,  t h a t  a  s i t u a t i o n  o f  a r m e d  c o n f l i c t
continues to exist in Afghanistan, leaving large numbers of victims and
causing enormous human suffering to the civilian population,

ave  c~ncarn tha t  the  t r e a t m e n t  of  priuoners de ta ined
in connrction  with the conflict does not conform to the internationally
recognised principles of humanitarian law,

that more than five million refugees are
l iving outside Afghanietan, that many Afghans are displaced within the country
and that in both cases the number8 have increased,

m that the main reasons given by the refugee8 for not returning to
Afghanirtan,  pending the achievement of a comprehensive political solution,
are the continued fighting in aome  provinces, the use of very dsrtructive arm8
in the conflict, and the minefields that have been laid in many parts of the
country,

Bth c~neefn  that acts of terrorism have significantly increased,

1. te with of the interim report of the Special
Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan and of the
conclusions and recommendations contained therein;

2. B the co-operation of the Afghan authorities with the Special
Rappor teur 1

3. mu all parties concerned to work for the achievement of a
comprehensive political solution based on the right of self-determination and
for the creation of a situation that will permit the return of refugees and
the full enjoyment of human rights by all Afghans;

4. w all parties  to the confl ict ,  in order to
alleviate the serious suffering of the Afghan people, strictly to respect
human life and the principles and provisions of international humanitarian law
and to co-operate fully and effectively with international humanitarian
organizations, especially with the International Committee of the Red Cross,
in particular by granting it unrestricted access to all part8 of the country;

Q/ A/44/669, annex.



A/44/040
Engliab
Page 44

5. R&RP witRave m the aontinuation  o f  t h e  a r m e d  a o n f l i a t ,
whiah throatoar the life and reaurity of  ianoaent  m e n ,  w o m e n  and ahildrew

6. w all parties to the aonflict  to reapeat  the Qeneva  Conventions
of 1949 and their Additional Protoaollr  of 1977, to halt the ULIO of weapon6
againrt  the aivilian population, to t r a n s m i t  to humanitarian organirations
and, in partiaular, to the International  Committee of the Red Crow, the names
of all political pr isoners  and detained Afghan soldiers, as well as to allow
the International Conunittee of the Red Cross to visit all prisoners in
aaaordanao with  i t s  mtablished cr i ter ia)

7. u urgap al l  parties  to the confl ict  to release al l  prisoners of
war in aacordanae with the internationally reaognioed  principles of
humanitarian law)

8. w at report8 that  the l iv ing condit ions of
rofugooo,  rrpoaially there  of  w o m e n  and  ahildton,  are  beaoming  increaringly
diffiault boaaurr  of the dealine  in international humanitarian assistanaeJ

9. v to all Xemlaer Rates, humanitarian organisations
and all partior  aonaornrd to ao-operate fully, in co-ordination with the
Offiao  of the United Nations High Connniarionrr for Refugeor, in order to
faail i tate tha rrturu of refugoar and disglaoed persons in  aafetyt

10. v to all Member Sta’-em and humanitarian organinationr
to promotr  the implomontation  of the projects l nvisagod by the Speaial
Co-ordinator for Humanitarian and Raonomia Assistance relating to Afghanistan
and the programnor of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugsest

11 .  w al l  par t ie s  to  the  conf l i c t  to  t rea t  a l l  pr i soners  in  the i r
austody in acaordance  with the internationally reaognised  principles of
humanitarian law and t o  p r o t e c t  t h e m  f r o m  all  acts  of  regrioal and violence,
inaluding  i l l-treatment, torture and swnary rrecutiont

12. R&~P with reports of the interrogation practices of the
Afghan authorities, the large number of political prisoners and the aonditAons
of prisoners  awaitinq  trial1

13. w UQQB  the Afghan authorities to investigate thoroughly the fa te
o f  dirappeared  perbOmar to  apply a m n e s t y  d e c r e e s  equally to foreign detainees,
to reduae the period during which prisoners await trial, to treat all
prisonero,  especial ly those await ing trial  or in custody in juvenile
rehabilitation  centres, in accordance with the Standard Minimum Rules for the
Treatment of Prisoners u/ and to allow the International Committee of the Red
Cross to vis i t  t h e m  regularly in accordance with i ts  established  criteria)

421 Eitat United W!aw.on Pwegfiion  of Crm
n (United Nations
publication, Saler No. 1956.IV.4),  annex I.A.



A/44/848
Rnglish
Page 48

14. &RI&R the Afghan authorities strictly to apply to all aonviated
perron artiale 14, paragraph 3 (d), and 14, paragraph 5, of the International
Covenant on Civil and Political RightaJ a/

15. Notar the allegationr  of atroaitiea  committed against
Afghan soldiers , civil servant8  and captured civilians~

16. m all parties concerned to extend their full co-operation to the
Commission on Human Rights and its Special Rapporteurt

17. m the Secretary-Qeneral  to give all necessary assistance to
the Special Rapporteurt

18. w to keep under consideration, d u r i n g  i t s  f o r t y - f i f t h  session,
the rituation of human rights in Afghanistan in order to eramil\e it anew in
the light of additional elements provided by the Commission on Human Rights
and the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT  RESOLUTION XIV

rinthe.administration

w the principles embodied in articles 3, 5, 9, 10 and 11 of
tho Universal Declaration of liuman  Rights a/ and the relevant provirions of
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 241 in particular
artiale 6, which expliaitly  states that no one shall be arbitrarily deprived
of his life and prohibits the imposition of the death penalty for crimes
aolnmitted  by persons below eighteen years of age,

BaarinG ti’ulu the relevant principles embodied in the Convention
aga.lnst  Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punlahment  fi/ and ;‘n the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, 251

v to the Body of Principle8 for the Protection of All
Persons under Any Form of Detention or Imprisonment,  adopted by the General
Assembly in i ts  resolution 431173  of  9 D e c e m b e r  1 9 8 8 ,

w to the Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice
for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power pP/ and the safeguards guaranteeing
protection of the rights of those facing the death penalty, fi/ as roll as to

Q/ Resolution 39146, annex.

p4/ Resolution 40134, annex.

fi/ Economic and Social Council resolution 1984/50,  annex.

/ . l .



A/44/040
Rnqlirh
Pago 46

the Bario Prinaiplea on the Independence of the Judiciary,, u/ the Model
Agrooment  on the Transfrr of Foreign Brirrcnerlr  and reaommend~tionr on the
troatmont  of  fore ign  priaonera, a/ aa well as the Code of Conduct for Law
Bnforaomont  Offiaials  4p/ and the Standard Minimum Rulea for the Treatment of
Prirooora,  Op/

v alro in thie aontext the importanae of the prinaiplerr
ao: tainad in its ret olution 411120  of 4 Deaember 1986 on standard-setting in
the field of human rightn,

R~g~ga)u  the important contribution of the CommisuJon on Human Right6
in the fielcl of human right8 in the administration of justice, as reflected in
its rooolutkn  1989/24  of 6 Maroh  1989 or. human rights in the administration
of justioe, 1969/32  of 6 March 1989 on the independence  and impartiality of
the judioiary,  jurora and asseosaro ard the indepsadencm  of  lawyera,  lQ89/38
of 6 March 1989 on administrative detention without charge or trial and
1989164  of 6 March 1989 on summary or arbitrary executions, u/

v the significant  work aacomplished  in this area under the
United Nations crime preventlou and oriminal  justjce  programme, including the
results of the interregional and regionnl meetings fez the Eighth United
Nation8 Congress on the Prnvention of Crime and thd Treatment of Offenders,

Canvinced  of the need for further co-ordinate8 and concerted action in
promoting respect fox human rights in the  administration of justice,

m Commission oa Human Rights reeolution 1989124, in which the
Conunirsion,  ‘m, stzsssed t h e  des i rab i l i ty  o f  providing Sta tes ,  a t
their request , with continued aesistanc? in the field of the administration of
justice, including in such assistance provision of model texta for national
legislative or other mewarea  for the effective implementation of standards in
thie f i e l d ,

1. :EdaaFrirme i-kit importance of the full implementation of United
Nations norm  and stan&~rds w human rights in the administration of justice1

46/ sea Gevanth Co~asa u Premon o f  Crimean8
o f  CIffa.,,SerrP.  u, 2 6  Awat-6 Sevrenort wembv &

B (United  Nations publication, Sales No. E.66,IV.l), chap, I, sect. DT2,

481 R e s o l u t i o n  34/X69,  annex,

pP/ S e e  wbtst A ?~ila~gz~atic.,& Instrument  ( U n i t e d
Natiora  publicat ion, Salea No. E.88.XXV.l).

/ .L.



A/44/848
English
Page  47

2. Endorrea  Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/63  of
24 May 1989 on the implementation of United Nations standards and norms in
crime prevention and criminal justices

3. Alao the Principles on the  Effective Prevention and
Investigation of Extra-legai, Arbitrary and Summary Executions, adopted by the
Economic and Social Council in itr resolution 1989/65  of 24 May 1989~

4. Eurther Economic and Social Counoil resolutions 1989157  on
the implementation ok’ the Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for
Victim? of Crime and Abuse of Power, 1989160 on procedures for the effective
implementation of the Basic Principles of the Independence of the Judiciary,
1989161  on guidelines for the effective implementation of the Code of Conduct
for Law Enforcement Officials and 1989/64 on the implementatioa  of the
ssfeguards  guaranteeing protection of the rights of those facing the death
penalty)

5. Inuitu Member States to pay attention to these resolutions in
developing strategies for the practical implementation of United Nation8 norm8
and standarda in th; administration of justice and human rights, aa requested
iu its resolution 431153  of 8 December 1988r

6, Recruesta  the Commission on Human Rights to invite the Sub-Commiusion
on Prevent ion  of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to study the
practical implementation of United Nations norms and standards in this field
and to recomnlend  practical measures to the CommiseionJ

7. Reaueata the Secretary-General in this regard:

(a) To roliait  comments from Member States au well as from the relevant
international agencies and bodies, such as, in particular, the Human Rights
Committee, the Committee against Torture and the Conunittee for the Elimination
of Racial Discrimination,  on the implementation of these atandardar

(b) To forward these comments to the Sub-Commisuion on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection fi C M i n o r i t i e s  a t  i t s  n e x t  sesaiont

8. Mao ru. q&t.8 t h e  Secretary-General:

(a) To identify general problems that may impinge,  OE the effective
implementation of standards and norms and to recommend viable solutions with
action-oriented proposalat

(b) To formulate practical proposals for the Eighth United Nations
Congress on procedures and actions at the national, regional and international
levels to implement United Nations norms and standards in the administration
of justice and human rightst

/ .C-



A/44/848
la91 i rh
Paqe 48

(a) To contiauo  to ar.oiat Member Water, at their reguast, in
implementing  erirting international human right8 rtandarda  in the
administration  o f  jurtice, in particular under the programme of advisory
rorvice8 8

(d) To continua  to provide all necereary support to United Nations
bodior  working on standard-setting in thir field8

(0) To co-ordinate the various technical advisory rervicerr  carried out
by the Centre for Human Rights and the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat with a view to undertaking joint
programmes  and strengthening eristing mechanisms for the protection of human
rights  in L.he adminirtration of  just ice)

9. m the import nt role of the regional comminaions,
epeaialioed  agoncier and United Nation8  inatitutea  in the area of human rights
and crime prevention and criminal justice and other organisations of the
U n i t e d  Nation6 syystem, a6 well au intergovernmental and non-governmental
organioations, including national professional  associations concerned with
promoting United Nations standards in this ficlldj

10. Prawa of the Commirsion on Human Rights and ita
Sub-Conunission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities,
a8 well a8 of the Eighth United Nation6  Congress and the Committee on Crime
Prevention and Control, to the ireues raieed in the present resolution, in
order to accord priority to issues related to human right6 in the
administration of justices

11. Dacidaa to conaider r,t its forty-fifth session the question of human
rights in the adminirtration of justice.

DRAPT  RESOLUTION XV

Qvm by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Natione,
ths UAverrral  Declaration of Human Rightu a/ and the International Covenants
011 Human Righta,  a/

1. with B of the intetim report of the Specinl
Representative of the Commission on Human Righter N/

a/ E/C!N.4!1989/26.

/ . . .



A/44/040
Rag1 irh
Page 49

2. Taksancrtr of  the reoommendatioa  of  the Spo’aial Roprorentative  that,
in order to aahieve full ao-operation brtwrrn  the Government oi the 181emia
Republic of Iran and the Speaial  Reprerentative, them  i8 a  mod t o  proaoed t o
another stag% in the discharge of the mandate of the Special  Reprereatativo#

3. m the invitation by the Islamio  Republia of Iran to the
Special Representative to visit that oountryt U/

4. RRQu~ the Secretary-Qeneral  to give all necessary assirtance to
the .‘&ecial  Representatives

5. w to aontinue  its examination of the rituation  of human right8
in the ISl~iiiO Republic of Iran during ita forty-fifth reallion in the light of
additional elements provided by the Conuni88ion  for Human Right8  and the
Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVI

Mindful of it8 general humanitarian mandate under the Charter of the
United Nation8  to promote and encourage roapect  for human rights and
fundamental ffa~dOfIt8~

v by the aontinuing  8cale and magnitude of l xodu8eo of
refugees and displacement8 of population in many regions of the world and by
the human suffering of million8 of refugees and di8plaCOd perbona,

m of the fact that human right8 violations are one of the
multiple and complex factor8 causing  ma88 exOdU808 of rofugeerr and dirplaced
personsr  a8 indicated in the 8tUdy ot the Special Rapporteur of the cOll8lli8aiOn
on Human Right8 on this subject %/ and alro in the report of the Qroup of
Governmental Experts on International CO-Operation  to Avert New Flow8  of
Refugees, m/

Aware  of the recommendation8 concerning ma80 exoduser  made by the
Commission on Human Rights to its Sub-Connni88ion  on Prevention of
Di8crimination  and Protection of Minorities and tu special rspporteurs to be
taken into account when etudying  violations of human right8 in any part of the
world,

a/ A/C.3/44/9.

521 EiCN.411503.

.a/ A1’41/324, a n n e x .



A/44/040
Englirh
Pago SO

m by the increasingly  heavy burden being impo8ed,
partiaularly upon developing countries with limited retsource of their own 8nd
upon the international community a8 a whole, by the80 sudden maa8 eXOdU8es  snd
displacements >I population,

m the need for international co-operation aimed at averting nw
masrive  flows of refugees in parallel with the provision of durable solutions
to actual refugee aituatione,

D its re8olution 41/70 of 3 December 1986, in which it endorsed
the conclusion8 and recommendations contained in the report of the Qroup of
Governmental Experts on International Co-operation to Avert New Flows of
Refugees,

w it8 resolution 43/154 of 0 December 1908 and Commission on
Human Rights re8olution 1989/63 of 8 March 1909, aa/ as well a8 all previoue
relevant resolutions of the Qeneral Assembly and the Commiseion on Human
Right8 ,

wu the steps taken so far by the United Nations to examine the
problem of maseive  outflows of refugees and dirrplaced persons in all its
aspects,  including i ts  root c a u s e s ,

1. m the recommendation of the Qroup of Governmental Expert8 on
International Co-operation to Avert New Flow8 of Refugees that the principal
organ8 of the United Nations should make fuller use of their respective
competencies unde  . the Charter of the United Nations for the prevention of new
massive flow8 of refugees and displaced personat

2. s all Qovernments  and intergovernmental and humanitarian
orgsniaations concerned to intensify their co-operation and assistance in
world-wide efforts to address the serious problem8 rraulting  from ma88
exoduses of refugees and displaced persons, and also the cause8 of such
exodusee I

3. m all Government8 to ensure the effective implementation  of
the relevant international instruments, in particular in the field of human
rights, as this would contribute to averting new massive flows of refugees and
displaced persons;

4. m the Commiseion on Human Rights to keep the question of human
rights and mass exoduses under review with a view to supporting the early
warning arrangement instituted by the Secretary-General to avert new massive
flows of refugees ard displaced persons;

/ II.



A/44 /040
hngli8h
P a g e  51

5, m of the report of the Secretary-General on human right8
and ma88 exodulles, 6p/ and invite8 him to inform the General Alrrmbly in
future reports on the modalities  of early warning activities to avert new and
m a s s i v e  f lows  o f  refugeest

6. m the Secretary-Qeneral to continue to discharge
the task described in the report of the Qroup of Qovernmental Experts on
International Co-operation to J:oert New Flow8 of Refugees#

7 . w the Secretary-Qeneral to  cont inue  to develop the role of
the Office for Re8earch and the Collection of Information of the Secretariat
as a focal point for the operation of an effective early warning system and
the strengthening of co-ordination of information-gathering and analysis among
United NatiOU8 agencies with a view to preventing new massive flows of
r e f u g e e s  and displaced peruoust

8. m the Secretary-General to use the re8ource8 available to
aonsolidate  aud rrtrengthen the 8y8tem for undertaking early warning activities
in the humanitarian area by, malie, early computerisation of the Office
for Research and the Collection of Information and 8trengthened  co-ordination
among the relevant part8 of the United Nations sylrtem,  e~~pecially  the Office
for Research and the Collection of Information, a8 well as the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Centre for Human Rights of
the Secretariat and the relevant specialised agencies)

9. Bacruesta  the Secretary-Qenera l  to rrport to the Qeneral  Assembly at
i ts  forty-f i f th 8e88ion  on the 8trengthened  role that  he i8 playing in
undertaking early warning activities, especially in the .A.unanitarian  area, a8
well as on any further development8 relating to the reconnnendationr  contained
in the report of the Group of Qovernmental Expert8 on International
Co-operation to Avert New Flows of Refugees)

10. u to continue con8ideration of the question of human right8
and  m a s s  eXOdU8e6  a t  i t8  for ty - f i f th  8e6sion.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVII

guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations,  the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a/ the International Covenant on Civil
and Pol i t ical  Rights, a/ the International Covenant on Economic, Social and

M/ A / 4 4 / 6 2 2 .

/ a . .



A/44/040
Englirh
Page 52

Cultural Rightr,  Zp/ and the humanitarian rules laid down in the Qeneva
Convention6  of 12 Augu8t 1949 U/ and Additional Protocol II thereto, of
1977, M/

w that, despite the enaouraging  signs offered by the
meetings held by the Qovernment  of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo-  Marti
pars  la  Liberacidn  National, the aggravation of the conflict and the
resurgence of violence have seriou8ly affected the civilian population,

v that it 18 the duty of the Qovernmants of all Member State8
to promote and protsct human right8 and fundamental freedom8 and to fulfil the
obligation8 that they have assumed under the relevant international
inatrumente,

m that, since 1980, it ha8 been expressing it8 deep concern at
the situation  of human rights in El Salvador, a8 indicated in i t8 resolution
431145  of 8 December 1900,

m in mind Commir,sion  on Human Rights rerolution 32 (-II) of
11 March 1981, fi/ in which the Commission decided to appoint a special
reprerex.tative on the situation of human rights in El Salvador,  and subsequent
resolutions, including Commission resolution 1909160  of 8 March 1909, U/ in
which it extended the mandate of the Special Representative for another year
and requerted  him to report to the General A88embly at it8 forty-fourth
session and the Commission at its forty-sixth session,

D that an armed conflict of a non-international character
continue8 to exist in El Salvador in which the partie involved are under an
obligation to apply the miaimum  standards of protection of human rights and
humanitarian treatment provided for in article 3 common to the Geneva
Conventions of 1949 and in Additional Protocol II thereto of 1977,

Paeplv  concetned  because,  as the Special Representative indicate8 in hi8
report, the number of politically motivat62 serious  violationb  uf human right8
continue8 to increase) in particular, there has been a rerurgence of torture
and an increase  in arretlts,  and runnnary executions, disappearances,
abductions, attacka on the economic infrastructure and violationa of the
humanitarian rules of war have remained at dieturbing  levels,

Coneernea because many sources continue to attribute summary
execution8 and other serious violations of human rights to the eo-called
“death squads”,

D/ A/32/144, annex II.

5.W S e e  Qfficial R e c o r d s  o f  t& Economic S-1 C<uncil. 1907. SB
No. and corrigendum (E/1901/25 and Corr.11, chap. XXVIII, sect. A.

/ a..



A/44 /040
English
Page 53

v b y  t h e  colleative  a88ar8ination in cold blood,  on
16 November 1909, of the Reator, five profesrore and two member8 of the
service staff of the Central American University,

m its D because, as a consequence of the current
situation, act8 of intimidation and harassment have been carried out against
the Church hierarchy, political and trade union leader8, members  of
humanitarian organisation8 belonging to various churchecr and the headquarters
of political parties and trade union8, a8 well aa againet relative8 of member8
of the armed forces and civil 8ervant8 and member8 of their families,

Cpna that there ha8 been no progre88  during 1969 ia the judicial
ca8e of the a88a88ination  of Monaignor Romero , which took place in 1900, and
that i t  is  a  m a t t e r  of urgency that  those responsible  for  m a n y  other recent
violations of human rights, including the a8ea88ination  of the Minister in the
~l’fice  of  the Prerident  and the fatal  collective a t t a c k  on a trade union
federation, be identified and punished,

Convirnced  that the strict fulfilment of the commitments assumed by the
Oovernment  of El Salvador under the “Procedure for the establishment of ra firm
and lasting peace in Central America” (Esquipulae  II agreement) n/ and the
Joint Declarations of the Central American Preridentr 8ignsd in Coats Riao,  El
Salvador and HOUdUral,  will contribute to the promotion, respect  and
realisation  of human right8 and fwdemental freedom8 in that country,

B the importance of the fact that, in the agreements  adoLArd at
Tela,  HOUdUra8,  m/ the five Central  knerican Presidents  expremed  their f irm
belief in the necesrrity of an immediate and effective end to hostilitie8  in El
Salvador and therefore 8trongly  urged the Frente Farabundo Marti pare la
Liberacibn  Naclonal  to carry out a aonstruative dialogue for the purpore of
achieving a just and larting peace and, equally strongly, aged the Oovernment
of El Salvador to arrange , with full guarantee8 and in the spirit of section 2
of the Esquipular  agreement, the integration of member8 of the Frente
Farabukdo Marti para la Liberac!dn  National into peaceful and in8titutional
l i f e ,

m it v and urga to return to the agrsementa  of
lri September and 10 October 1909 signed at Mexico and at San Jo8/,
reepectively,  by the Qovernment  of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Marti
para 1a Liberacibn  Nucional whereby, m they undertook to maintain a
procers  OY ongo ing  d ia logue  n o t  p e r m i t t i n g  o f  ukilateral wi thdrawal , in order
that they might, in an effort to arrive at a negotiated understanding, manage

a/ A/42/521-S/3”F35,  annex. For the printed text, eee sd8 a
.W.uxU  CwnsAL F-~rtv-aecondYear=  S-r JiLlv.  Auwt an4

er lQ.& document S/19005, annex.

I u/ A/44/451-s/2077e.

/ . . .



A/44/b40
Engl i8h
P a g e  5 4

to end the armed confliot by political meane  as soon a8 possible, promote the
democratisation of the country and reunify Salvadorian 8ooiety and also agreed
on the need to create international verifiaatian  mechanism8 appropriate to the
aharaCteri8tiC8  and realitie8 of El Salvador to monitor the implementation of
the agreement6  reached by them,

vthst, under Additional Protocol II to the  Geneva Convention8,
the arar-wounded  and war-injured mu8t be  respected and protected, their
evacuation by the International Committee of the Red Cross so that they may
receive the medical care that thuy need must not be impeded and no one may be
punished for carrying out medical activitiee compatible with medical ethics,
regardless of the circumrtances  and the beneficiaries of such activities,

A\lrare  that a negotiated political solution of the Salvadorian conflict
can be cut  rhort if external forces do not *upport  thb resumption of :he
dialogue but instead meek in different way8 to 8pur the intensification or
prolongation of the war, with ensuing grave effects on the situation of human
rights and the possibilities of economic recovery in El Salvador,

1. -da the  Special Representative for his report N/ on the
situation of human rights in El Salvador and endorse8 the recommendation8
contained therein, whild  reguesting the Special Representative to update them
in the light of the 8erious  events taking place in that country1

2 . m its deepest  diemay at  the aggravction  of the confl ict ,  the
reeurgence  o f  v i o l e n c e , the bombing8 and the indiscriminate use of high-power
heavy weapons in densely populated areas, resu l t ing  in  numerous  c iv i l i an
~~~8ualtiee  and eubstantial  material  damage)

3 . mi7.n its  s e r i o u s  concern  a t  the  sys temat ic  a t t a c k s  on  the
country’+4  economic infrastructure, which seriously undermine the prer.ent and
future eujoyment  of important economic, social  and cultural  rights b:. t h e
Salvadorian people1

4 . mtlv w to the Government of El Salvador and the Frente
Farabundo Marti para la Liberaci6n  National to  put  an immediate end to the
armed conflict and to work for a resumption Gf the currently suspended
dialogue in order to reach agreements that would lead to the clefinitive
ces sa t ion  o f  a l l  hos t i l i t i e s  w i th in  an  agreed timeframes

5 . m the parties  to the confl ict  to gllarantee  respect  for the
internat’>nal  standards aypiicable  to a n  Lrrmed  conflict  of  a  non-international
character, in particular, the protection of the civilian population and the
war-wounded, to make possible the immediate evacuation of the war-wounded and
war-injured, whether civilians or combatants, in order that they may receive
the medical care that they need and, furthermore, to co-operate with

zJ/ A / 4 4 / 6 7 7 ,

/ . . .



A/44/848
English
Page 55

humanitarian organisations working to alleviate the suffering of the civilian
population in any part of the country in which such organizations  are
operating and requests that medical and health personnel shall under no
circumstances be penalized for carrying out their activities:

6. Suuuorts fully the expressed readiness of the Secretary-General to
help bring about, as a first stage in a political solution, an immediate
agreement on the cessation of the armed conflict, and his decision taken last
September to accept the invitation from the Government of El Salvador and the
Frente Farabundo Mart; para la Liberaci6n  National that he or his
representatives should participate in their process of dialogue and
negotiation, since all this forms part of the mission of good offices that he
is performing to assist the Central American Governments in their efforts to
achieve the objectives set forth in the Esquipulas II agreement;

7. Rxnresses its firm suooort for the efforts Of the Secretary-General
of the Organization  of American States to bring about a resumption of the
political dialogue in El Salvador;

a. ADDealS uraentlv to the parties to the Conflict t0 respect and
guarantee the security of the staff and official premises of international
agencies:

9. Condemns the brutal assassination of the Rector and seven other
members of the Central American University and hopes that the Government of
El Salvador will fulfil its pledge to carry out an immediate investigation and
to punish those responsible for such an abominable crime;

10. Expresses its deco concern at the persistence of and increase in
politically motivated serious violations of human rights such as summary
executions, disappearances, torture and abductions;

11. Also expresses its deer, concern at the persistence  of and increase
in the alleged activities of the so-called "death squads", which are operating
with impunity in El Salvador:

12. Renews its aon& to all States to refrain from intervening in the
internal situation of El Salvador and, instead of seeking in different ways to
spur the prolongation and Litensification  of the armed conflict, to stimulate
dialogue until a firm and lasting peace is attained;

13. Expresses its urofound concern at the fact that the capacity of the
Salvadorian judicial system continues to be extremely unsatisfactory, despite
the efforts made by the Government to determine the responsibility of the
instigators of some violations of human rights , and consequently urges the
competent authorities to accelerate the adoption of the measures necessary for
ensuring the effectiveness of the system and its compatibility with the
commitments made in the field of human rights;

/ l .* __I__



A/44/848
English
Page 56

14. Renawe to the competent organ8 and orgaai=ationr  of the
United Nationa system that, on the baris  of Commiarrion  on Human Righta
resolution 1989168 of 8 March 1989  and its own rerrolution  431145  of
8 Deoember  1905, they provide ouch advice and assistance as the aovernment of
El Salvador may requerrt in order to enhance the promotion and protection of
human rights and fundamental freedomal

15. m the Commiab,m on Human Right8 at ita forty-sixth session
to consider the situation of hu-Tlan rights in El Salvador  and the mandate of
i t s  Speoial  Repre:entative, taking iato a c c o u n t  the evolution of the situation
of human rights in that country and the developments linked to the fulfilment
of all the agreements signed by the Central American Presidents within the
framework of the regional peace proceme and the agreements concluded by the
aovermnent of  El  Salvador and the F r e n t e  Farabuatlo  Marti para la  Liberaaibn
National  in Mexico and Costa Rica)

16. UfQBb,  in accordance with the recommendations of the Special
Representative, the Qovernment  of El Salvador and all the country’6  political
powersr agencier  and forcea, including the Frento Farabundo Marti  para la
Liberacid.1  National, to adopt immediate measures to put an end to attacks on
t h e  l i f e , integrity and dignity of persons outaide, ‘during and as a result of
combat situationst

17.w its a to the Government  of El Salvador and the Frente
Farabundo Marti para la Liberacibn  National  to continue co-operating with the
Special Representative of the Commiaaion  on Human Rights)

18. I)eciBee  to keep under consideration, during i ts  forty-f ifth semion,
the situation of human right6 and fundamental freedoms in El Salvador in order
to re-examine this situation  in the light of the information provided by the
Commission on Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVIII

Quiaed by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and bearing in mind the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a/ the
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,  241 and the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 2p/

Awere of its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms, and determined to r e m a i n  vigilant  with r e g a r d
to violations of human rights wherever they occur,

Notinn the obligation of the Government of Chile to respect and protect
human rights in accordance with the international instruments to which Chile
is a party,

/ . . .



A/44/040
English
Page 57

m in mina that the concern of the international community at the
situation of human rights in Chile has been expressed by the General Assembly
in a number of resolut ions,  particularly resolution 33/173 of 20 December 1978
wa disappeared persons and resolution 431158  of 8 December 1988,

m the pertinent resolutions of the Commission on Human Righta,
particularly resolution 1989162 of Cl March 1989, 3.31 by which the Comrnisaion
decided, w, to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur for one
y e a r ,  to consider the question as a  m a t t e r  of high priority in view of the
persistenae of serious violations of human rights in Chile and to determine
how the item was to be dealt with on the agenda of its forty-sixth session ‘n
the  light of developments in the situation,

Rm the decision of the Government of Chile to discontinue its
co-operation with the Special Rapporteur,

wr rw that the process of restoration of civil and political
rights in Chile does not yet include the amendment of numerous laws that
constitute an institutiotial and legal framework that makes violations of human
rightn possible,

1. note with s of the report of the Special
Rapporteur pP/ submitted in accordance with Commission on Human Rights
resolution 1989162 of 8 March 19891

2. v the Chilean people on their peaceful progreee towards
the re-establishment of a representative and pluralist democracy based on
respect for human right ~1 and fundamental freedoms,  and for their reiterated
will to achieve peace and national reconciliation through the restoration of
justice1

3. &Rresses  its sat-ion at the progress of the Chilean electoral
proces& as an important step towards the rapid return of democracy in that
countryt

4. Considers a  oositive dewA>smanf  t h e  d e c i s i o n  b y  t h e  Qovernrnent o f
Chile to heed the demands of democratic sectors of the country and of the
international community with regard tr reforming the institutional and legal
f r a m e w o r k  in certain aspects  harmfu ? t o  c i v i l  a n d  p o l i t i c a l  r i g h t s ;

5. Notes with_g&Ufactiqn  the decis ion by the  Government  of  Chi le  to
incorporate the  Internat ional  Covenant  on Civ i l  and Pol i t ical  Rights  and the
International Covenant on Economic, Social  and Cultural  Rights  into  domest ic
lawt

bQ/ A/44/635.



A/44/848
Engl iah
P a g e  5 8

6. w the imlgrovement  of  the human rights si tuat ion in  Chile
during the rix month8 covered by the reQort, as described by the SQecial
RaQQorteur  in  tha t  documentr

7. meta nevm the detciaion by the Government to disaontinue
itu co-operation with the Special Ragporteur  in the fulfilment of hia mandate,
and urges it to resume such co-operation in compl iance  with the reso?utions of
the Qeneral  Araembly and the Commission on Human Righter

8. m the Qovernment  of Chile to make further Qrogreaa in rslrpect
for human rightu and fundamental fre6dOmO  for all the Chilean peogle,
including the indigenourr Q~OQ~OO , ergrcially by adapting the legal eyetern  to
the relevant principles and provisiona, and refraining from making any more
change8 in national inrtitutions without duly conrulting  the people,  and to be
guided by there Qrincigles  and provieiona in the exercise of ita powers in the
rame  way aa the judiciaryr

9. mo urgaa the Qovornment of Chile for that Qurgose to eneure the
indeQendenCe  of  the judiciary and the effectivenssa of judicial  remedies,  by
reaQeCting  procedural gUaranteeMY , equality before the law and the right to
defence in all cases#

1 0 .  wat acta of violence of any origin that
continue to occur in Chile, thereby aggravating the climate of inrrecurity  and
rendering the return t o  d e m o c r a c y  m o r e  difficultr

11. mm at the persistence of  violations
of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Chile involving, malia, cane6
of death, torture, ill-treatment and the “Colonia” ca8er aa described
by the Special Rapportour  in his report)

12. m the Government of Chile to investigate all cases of serious
violati0na of human rights that occurred in the past, bearing in mind the
reports of the Special Rapporteurej

13. rnvitea  the Commission on Human Rights to evaluate a: itl
forty-sixth seesion the situation of human rights in Chile, bearing in mind
the regorts presented by the Special Ragporteurs,  to conaider  the mandate of
the Special Rapporteur  and aleo how the item ir to be dealt with on the agenda
in the l ight  of  deVOlOQmentI3  in the s i tuation, nnd to resort to the General
Aseembly a t  i t s  f o r t y - f i f t h  semion.



A/44/040
English
Page 59

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIX

&&&J&g  Economic and Social Council resolutions 845 (XXXII) of
3 Auguut 1961, 1147 iXL1) of 4 August 1966 and 1979136 of 10 May 1979,

&ggu the contribution made by the Commissica on Human Rights to
the cause of human rights and recognising the need to reinforce it,

D that the Commission on Human Rights shall be guided by the
standards In the field OS human rights laid down in the various international
instrument8 in that field,

w the importance of further improving the effective functictiing
of the Commission  on Human Rights and the participation therein by Member
States at a high level,

v of the rel6vant section of the final documents of the Ninth
Conference of Heada of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries adopted at
Belgrade on 7 September 1989, &&/ which states that in order to strengthen the
role and efficiency of the United Nations ancl  to reinforce United Nations
mechanisms so as to allow for efficient co-ordination of the Organisation’8
aativities, there ie an urgent need, igter al&R, for an Yversll review of the
current distribution of membership in the various United Nation8 bodies and
commissions, with a view to achieving a more equitable geographical
distribution,

1. Qecim to recommend that the Economic and Social Council take the
necessary stepe, at its first regular seseion of 1990, to expand the
membership of the Commission on Human Rights, on the basis of the principle of
equitable CpOgtaQhiCal distribution, for the further promotion of humt 1 rights
anti fundamental freedomsr

2. uuaon the Economic and Social Council to conclude deliberations
on this question with urgency1

3. &~RR&&  the Commission on Human Rights to axamine ways and means of
making its work more effective and to submit ita recommendations thereon to
the Economic and Social Council.

fl/ See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.



A/44/846
lbglish
Page 60

79. The Third Committee recommends to thr, general  As6embly the adOQtiOn of the
fo l lowing  d r a f t  decisions

DRAFT DECISION

The General Assembly decides to defer con6ideration of the draft
decision U/ entitled ~'Progrmne of work of the Third Committee” to it8
f o r t y - f i f t h  remion, and that, when con6idering  it8 organioation of work for
the  for ty - f i f th  11611aion, the Third Comfnittee would haV6 befOr6 it the text of
the draft deaiaion and the rumnary  records  m/ of the meeting6 at which the
draft decision had been diacuamd.

--m-w

u/ A/C.3/44/L.2.

u/ A/C.3/44/SR.60  a n d  6 1 .


