







































UNITED
NATIONS

A
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.28
9 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 28

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Benin,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Congo, Cuba, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Gambia, German Democratic
RepUblic, Ghana, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Panama, Oatar, Saint Lucia, Senegal, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
United Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Zambia and Zimbabwe:

draft resolution

Comprehensive and mandatory sanctions against the racist regime
of South Africa

The General Assembly,

Recalling its earlier resolutions and those of the Security Council calling
for concerted international action to force the racist regime of South Africa to
eradicate apartheid,

Having considered the annual report of the Special Committee against
Apartheid, 1/ in particular paragraphs 255 to 275, and the report of the Commission
against Apartheid in Sports, ~/

Gravely concerned that, in spite of recent developments in South Africa, the
system of aparthoid remains intact and the regime maintains its domestic repressive

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 22 (A/44/22), part one.

~/ Ibid., Supplement No. 47 (A/44/47).

89-28104 1635Z (E) I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.2~

English
Page 2

practices, its policies of destabilization against independent neighbouring States
and its intransigence towards the will of the international community for the
prompt elimination of apartheid,

Noting with grave concern that sanctions and other measures recommended by the
General Assembly, as well as measures introduced unilaterally by a number of
States, lack comprehensiveness, co-ordination and adequate monitoring mechanisms,

Gravely concerned that some Mernber States and transnational corporations have
continued economic relations with South Africa, while others continue to exploit
opportunities created by sanctions imposed by other States, thus substantially
increasing their trade with that country, as indicated in paragraphs 109, 110, 112
and 265 of the annual report of the Special .Committee against Apartheid~

Convinced that the imposition of comprehensive and mandatory sanctions by the
Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations remains the
most appropriate and effective means to bring about a peaceful end to apartheid,

1. Reaffirms that apartheid is a crime against humanity and a threat to
international peace and security, and that it is a primary responsibility of the
United Nations to assist in efforts to eliminate ppartheid peacefully without
further delay;

2. Calls upon those States which have increased their trade with South
Africa and, particularly, the Federal Republic of Germany, which recently emerged
as the leading trading partner of South Africa, to sever trade relations with South
Africa;

3. Calls upon those Governments which are still opposed to the application
of comprehensive and mandatory sanctions to reassess their policies and cease their
opposition to the application of such sanctions by the Security Council;

4. Urges the Security Council to consider immediate action under Chapter VII
of the Charter of the United Nations with a·view to applying comprehensive and
mandatory sanctions against the racist regime Qf South Africa as long as it
continues to disregard the demands of the majority of the people of South Africa
and of the international community to eradicate apartheid. .

~(~~:'~
t!.~;;.;.. J:'d~l

~!"l"''''''''''l'!''''' r"~...".,:'l f"9''''';>J<"'''~
~~2;:, .J L,', ,'] L:~'~.~

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


