







































UNITED
NATIONS

A

General Assembly

± --M

Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.26
9 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 28

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Byelor.ussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cameroon, Comoras, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Djibouti, Ethiopia, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius L
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Panama,
Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania,
Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zimbabwe: draft

resolution

International solidarity with the liberation struggle in
South Africa

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee against Apartheid, 1/

Gravely concerned at the continuing repression of the majority population in
South Africa and the continuation of the state of emergency,

Expressing particular concern at the continuing practice of arbitrary
detentions ana trials, inclUding those of women and children, executions of

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 22 (A/44/22).

89-28092 1628Z (E) I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.26
English
Page 2

political prisoners, the ongoing use of vigilante groups and the stifling of the
press,

NQting with seriQus CQncern the regime's acts of aggression and
destabilization against neighbQuring independent African States.

1. ~ffirms the legitimacy of the struggle Qf the South African people for
the total eradication Qf apartheid and for the establishment of a united.
non-racial and democratic society in which all the people of South Africa.
irrespective of race. colour or creed. enjoy the same fundamental freedoms and
human rights;

2. Reaffirms alsQ its full support to the national liberation movements. the
African National Congress of South Africa and the Pan Africanist CQngress of
Azania, which pursue their noble objectives to eliminate apartheid through
political. armed and other forms of struggle. and which have reiterated their
preference for reaching their legitimate objectives through peaceful means;

3. CQndemns the regime'S continuing practice of sentencing tQ death and
executing its oppQnents and demands that it annul the capital punishment imposed on
opponents of apartheid. including the "Upington Fourteen". and confer
prisQner-Qf-war status Qn captured freedom fighters in accordance with the Geneva
Conventions Qf 12 August 1949 11 and AdditiQnal Protocol I of 1977 thereto; ~I

4. Demands that all pQlitical prisoners and detainees. particularly
children. be released unconditiQnally and without subsequent restrictions and that
the abhorrent practice Qf applying repressive measures to children and minors cease
immediately;

5. Calls upon GQvernments. intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations and individuals to extend all possible assistance to the struggliu~
people of South Africa. their national liberation movements and South African
refugees. particularly women and children;

6. Also calls upon all Governments. intergovernmental and non-governmental
QrganizatiQns to step up material. financial and other forms of supporttQ the
front-line and Qther neighbouring independent States that are SUbject tQ acts Qf
destabili~ation by SQuth Africa; .

7. Appeals to all Governments. intergQvernmental and nQn-governmental
organizations to contribute generQusly to the ActiQn fQr Resisting Invasion.
ColQnialism and Apartheid Fund set up by the Eighth Conference Qf Heads Qf State or
Government Qf Non-Aligned CQuntries;

11 United Nations. Treaty Series. vol. 75, NQs. 970-973.

~I A/32/144. annex I.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



--------...,..----------~~.~--_._--

A/44/L.26
English
Page 3

8. Decides to continue the authorization of adequate financial provision in
the regular budget of thu United Nations to enable the South African liberation
movements reco9ni~ed by the Organization of African Unity - namely, the African
National Congress of SQuth Africa and the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania - to
maintain offices in ~ew York in order to participate ef£ectively in the'
deliberations of the Special Committee against Apartheid and other appropriate
bodies.

--~~-~-~--~-----------------1

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


