







































UNITED
1{ATtONS

@) 
General AssemblY

DisEr.
GENERAI,

Ll 44/ 832/Add,,t
9 .tanuary L990
ENGLIS!I
ORIGINALs SPANISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda iten 12

REPORT OF TI{E ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Conmittee (part II)*

Rapporteur! Ms. Martha nUnfrAS de WHIST (Ecuador)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Corunittee held a substantive debate on item 12 (see \/44/832,
para. 3) aad, in particular, on the questiolr of, the proclamation of a seconat
inalustriar development decade for Africa, at its 48th rneeting, oa 4 December.
Action to be taken on the item was further considered at its 2sth, 29th, 31st,
34th, 41st, 44th, 46t-la, 48th, 49th and Slst neetings, on 31 October, 2, 6, LS, ZL,
24 a'ra 27 Novenber and 4, 1l anal 17 December 1989. Atr account of the cornniLtee,s
consideration of the item is contained in the relevant sunnary records
(A/C,2/44/sR,25, 29, 37, 34, 4L, 44, 46,48, 49 ancr 51).

2. At the 48th neeting, on 4 Deceriber, the representative of the Econonic
cornmission for Africa/utxited Nations rnalustrial Dever.opment organization Joiut
Ittdustry Division made an introductory statement (see A/C.2,/44/SR.48).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutio\s A/C,2/44/L.12 and Rev.l

3, At the 25th meeting, on
of the States Menbers of the

31 October, the
United NaEions

representative
that are nenbers

of MaLavsia, on behalf
of the Group of 77,

* The report of the
also A/44 /8 3 2 ) .

90-00534 0400P (E)

issued in two parts (seeCommittee on this iten will be

UNITED
NATIONS

A

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/832/Add.l
9 January 1990
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 12

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Committee (Part II)*

Rapporteur: Ms. Martha DUENAS de waIST (Ecuador)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on item 12 (see A/44/832,
para. 3) and, in particular, on the question of the proclamation of a second
industrial development decade for Africa, at its 48th meeting, on 4 December.
Action to be taken on the item was further considered at its 25th, 29th, 31st,
34th, 41st, 44th. 46th. 48th. 49th and 51st meetings, on 31 October, 2, 6, 15, 21,
24 and 27 November and 4. 11 and 17 December 1989. An account of the Committee's
consideration of the item is contained in the relevant summary records
(A/C.2/44/SR.25. 29, 31, 34, 41. 44, 46, 48. 49 and 51).

2. At the 48th meeting, on 4 December, the representative of the Economic
Commission for Africa/United Nations Industrial Development Organization Joint
Industry Division made an introductory statement (see A/C.2/44/SR.48).

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutions A/C.2/44/L.12 and Rev.l

3. At the 25th meeting, on 31 October, the representative of Malaysia, on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77,

* The report of the Committee on this item will be issued in two parts (see
also A/44/832).

90-00534 0400P (E) / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add,, I
English
Page 2

introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.12) entitted "Net transfer of resources
from alevelopirxg countries and its inpact. on their econonic aror,tth and developnent".
which read as foLlows !

"Tbe General AssenbLv.

"Recalling its resofueion's 4I/2O2 of I Decernber 1986 on strengthene'l
international econornic co-operation aimed at resolving the external debt
problem of developing countriesi 42/ag9 of 11 Decetnber 1987 on furthering
iDternational co-opelaLion regarding the external debt problem; and 43/lq8 of
20 December l-988 on exterttal debt crisis and developrnent,

"Recallinq also its resolution 43/I9'l of 20 Decenber 19BB on fulfilment
of the target for officiaL development assistance.

"Recall"inq further its resolution 43/195 of 20 Decenber 1988 on
int.ernational co-operation f,or the eradication of, Poverty in develoPing
countr ies ,

"Taking note of Econornic and Social Council decision 1988/160 of
27 July 1988 on net transfer of resources florn develoPing countries to
developed countries and resoluEion 1989/112 of 28 July 1989 on net transfer of
resources from developilg couutries and its inPacE on their economic gro!'tth
and developme[t,

"Aware that the sharp decline in the flow of resources' severe external
indebtedness, deteriorat.ion in tertns of trade, deplessed internaEionaf
conmodity prices, inteasified protectionism and other trade measures taLen by
developed countries, separately and coflectively. have resulted in a
substantial net transfer of resources from dev€LoPing countries,

"De6p1v concerned that sucb transfer is rapiitly incr€asiag ald
continuousfy depriving the developing countries of resources needed for
sustained economic grorrth, Ehus seriously hindering their developnent and
threatening their social and political stability,

"Bearing in mind that. olting to the Persistent structural imbalances of
the world econony, the devefoping countries continue to face major probLerns in
the area6 of nouey. finance, resource flows. trade, conmodities and external
debt,

"GraveLv concerned that the net transfer of resources has reached such
nagnitude that concerted action is urgentLy required by the internationaf
coflrnunity to halt and reverse the trend.

"Enphasizing that a substanEial Posit.ive net transfer of resources to
developing countries is a requisite for the resumption of their econornic
qrowth and sustained develoDrnent.

11/44/83 21l1dd.l
English
Page 2

introduced a draft resolution (II/C.2/44/L.12) entitled "Net transfer of resources
from developing countries and its impact on their economic growth and development",
which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 41/202 of 8 December 1986 on strengthened
international economic co-operation aimed at resolving the external debt
problem of developing countries: 42/198 of 11 December 1987 on furthering
international co-operation regarding the external debt problem: and 43/198 of
20 December 1988 on external debt crisis and development,

"Recalling also its resolution 43/197 of 20 December 1988 on fulfilment
of the target for official development assistance,

"Recalling further its resolution 43/195 of 20 December 1988 on
international co-operation for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries,

"Taking note of Economic and Social Council decision 1988/160 of
27 July 1988 on net transfer of resources from developing countries to
developed countries and resolution 1989/112 of 28 July 1989 on net transfer of
resources from developing countries and its impact on their economic growth
and development.

"Aware that the sharp decline in the flow of resources, severe external
indebtedness, deterioration in terms of trade, depressed international
commodity prices, intensified protectionism and other trade measures taken by
developed countries, separately and collectively, have resulted in a
substantial net transfer of resources from developing countries,

"Deeply concerned that such transfer is rapidly increasing and
continuously depriving the developing countries of resources needed for
sustained economic growth, thus seriously hindering their development and
threatening their social and political stability,

"Bearing in mind that, owing to the persistent structural imbalances of
the world economy, the developing countries continue to face major problems in
the areas of money, finance, resource flows, trade, commodities and external
debt.

"Gravely concerned that the net transfer of resources has reached such
magnitude that concerted action is urgently required by the international
community to halt and reverse the trend,

"Emphasizing that a substantial positive net transfer of resources to
developing countries is a requisite for the resumption of their economic
growth and sustained development.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add.L
English
Page 3

"1. Urges the internationaf cormunity to adopt concrete measures to halt
and reverse the net cransfer of resources frorn developing countriesi

"2, Invites the Trade and Development Board of the United Nations
conference on Traale and Development at its lhirEy-seventh session to give
in-depth consideration to the net transfer of resources frorn developing
countr ie s i

"-3. Invites the Joint Minist.erial Cornmittee of the Board of Governors of
the world Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the Transfer of ReaI
Resources to Developing Countries to give in-tlepth consideration to the net
transfer of resoulces from developinq count.ries;

erecutive heads of the competent bodies, organj.zations and specialized
agencies of the United Nations system, an analytical. and conPrehensive rePort
on the impact of the net tranafer of resources fron devefoPing countries, in
all its forms, with a view Lo halting and reversing the trend, in order Eo
ensure positive net transfer of resources to developing couneries cornrnensurate
'nieh their requirernents of econornic growth and sustained devel.opment, and to
reconmend specific measures with such purpose to be adoPted within the UniEed
Nations systeni

"5. Further r€quests the Sec retary-Gene raf to report on bbe
inplefirentation of the present rosolution to the General Assembly at its
forty-flftb session. "

4. At the 51st rneeting, on 17 Decenber, the vice-Chairnan of the Comittee,
Mr, Badam Ochiryn Doljintserea (Mongolia), reported on the results of informal
consultations hefd on draft resolutio\ A/C.2/44/L.12 and drew the aLtontion of the
Connittee to a revised draft resolutioa (A/C,2/44/L,L2/Rev.L), submitted by the
sponsors of A/C.2/44/L.12, entitleil "Trends in the transfer of resources to and
from the alevelbping countrios and Eh€ir impact on the econornic Arowth and sustained
development of those countries " ,

5. At the safie meeting, the Vice-Chairnan inforned Che Conmittee that the
following changes lrere to be incorporated into the revised draft resolution:

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, the words "resolving the external debt
problen" should read "resofving Ehe erternal debt problerns", and the words "towards
a durable solution of the debt probLerns" were added at the end of the ParagraPht

(b) In the fitth preambular paraqraph, the word "sustained" nas deleted
before the words "ecoqonic gronth";

(c) o[rerative paragraph 1 (d) was reordered to follow oPeracive I
paragraph I (a), thu6 becoming operative paragraph 1(b), and the word "economic"
was inserted between the words "national" and "rneasures"i

(d) operative paragraph 1 (b) would becone I (c);

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 3

"1. ~ the international conununity to adopt concrete measures to halt
and reverse the net transfer of resources from developing countries;

"2. Invites the Trade and Development Board of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development at its thirty-seventh session to give
in-depth consideration "to the net transfer of resources from developing
countries;

"3. Invites the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Board of Governors of
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the Transfer of Real
Resources to Developing Countries to give in-depth consideration to the net
transfer of resources from developing countries;

"4. Reguests the Secretary-General to prepare, in consultation with
executive heads of the competent bodies, organizations and specialized
agencies of the United Nations system, an analytical and comprehensive report
on the impact of the net transfer of resources from developing countries, in
all its forms, with a view to halting and reversing the trend, in order to
ensure positive net transfer of resources to developing countries commensurate
with their requirements of economic growth and sustained development, and to
recommend specific measures with such purpose to be adopted within the United
Nations system;

"5. Further reguests the Secretary-General to report on the
implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session."

4. At the 51st meeting, on 17 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Badam Ochiryn Doljintseren (Mongolia), reported on the results of informal
consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.12 and drew the attention of the
Committee to a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.12/Rev.l), submitted by the
sponsors of A/C.2/44/L.12, entitled "Trends in the transfer of resources to and
from the developing countries and their impact on the economic growth and sustained
development of those countries". .

5. At the same meeting, the Vice-Chairman informed the Committee that the
following changes were to be incorporated into the revised draft resolution:

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, the words "resolving the external debt
problem" should read "resolving the external debt problems", and the words "towards
a durable solution of the debt problems" were added at the end of the paragraph;

(b) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the word "sustained" was deleted
before the words tleconomic growth";

(c) Operative paragraph 1 (d) was reordered to follow operative
paragraph 1 (a), thus becoming operative paragraph 1 (b), and the word "economic"
was inserted between the words Il national'l and "measures U ;

(d) Operative paragraph 1 (b) would become 1 (c);

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ A32 / 
^dd,. 

L

English
Page 4

(e) Operative paragraph 1 (c) would become L (d) anat the words "ensure an
aclequate level of their resources" rnrere replaced by the words "ensure that these
institutions have an adeguate 1eve1 of resource6".

f). At the same neeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/44/L,L2lRev.1, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 113 to 1ll (see
Dara. 47, draft resolution I). The votinq was as follows:

ILf avour I Afghanistan, Atbania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia. Austria.
Baharnas, Bah!ain. Bangl-adesh, Barbados. Belgiurn, Bolivia, BraziI,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria. Burkina Faso, Furundi, Byeforussian
Soviet Socialist Repub]ic, Caneroon, Ca ,rda. Central African
Republic, Chile. China, Colombia. C6te cr rvoire, Cuba. cyprus'
Czechoslovakia. Democratic Yemen, Derunark, Ecuador. Egypt, Fiji,
Finland, Prance. German Democratic Repubfic, Gerrnany, Federa]
Repubfic of, Ghana, Greece. Guatemala. Guinea. Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Hungary. Icelan,al, India, Indonesia. Iran (I6larnic Republic
of). Ireland, Israel. Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya. Kuwait, tao
People's Democratic Republic. Lesotho. Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives. Mali. MaIta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myarunar, NePal,
Netherlands, New ZeaLaud, Nigeria. Norway, Patistan, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland. Po!lugal, Oatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, setregaf, Singapore, Somalia, Spain' Sri
Lanka, sudan, suriname, sweden, Tltailaud, Togo' Trinidad and
Tobago, Tuuisia, Turkey, uganda, Ukrainian soviet. socialist
Repub]ic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republ.ics, United Arab
Ernirates, UDiled Kingalorn of Great Britain and Northern rreland'
United Repubtic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venesuela, viet Nan. Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, zirnbabwe.

Against3 Urited States of Atnerica.

7. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements $ere made by tshe
representatives of the United States of Anerica, Malaysia (on behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations thaL are members of the Group of 77) and Canada'

Draft resolution A/C.2/44lL. L3B.

B. At the 25th rneeting. on 3t October, the representaEive of the German
Delnqc-r3li!-jepllbfig introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.13) entiEled "Human
resources develoDment", arhich read as follows!

L/ The delegations of
they been present during the
re so I ution.

Ethiopia and Otnan subsequently indicated thab, had
voting, they lrould have voted in favour of the draft

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 4

(e) Operative paragraph 1 (cl would become 1 (d) and the words "ensure an
adequate level of their resources" were replaced by the words uensure that these
institutions have an adequate level of resources".

6. At the same meeting. the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/44/L.12/Rev.1, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 113 to 1 ~/ (see
para. 47, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh. Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Purundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Ca~-,Qda, Central African
Republic, Chile, China. Colombia, Cote CL Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus.
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji,
Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

7. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United States of America, Malaysia (on behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77) and Canada.

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.13

8. At the 25th meeting, on 31 October, the representative of the ~n
D_emocratic Republic introduced a draft resolution (Ale. 2/44/L. 13) entitled "Human
resources development", which read as follows:

1/ The delegations of Ethiopia and Oman subsequently indicated that, had
they been present during the voting, they would have voted in favour of the draft
resolution.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ A3Z/ Add, I
EDglish
Page 5

"The Gene;al Assembly,

"Havi.pg considered the part of the report of Ehe Econonic and Sociaf
Council for 1989 that coucerns the deveLopment of hutlan resource€. e/

"8ca!E! xrni]og the crucial, role of hunan resources for economic and social
progress and developn€nt.,

"Takinq into accounL the importance of th€ issue of hrrfian resources
development in light of the preparation for the special session of the General
Assernbly devoted to international economic co-operation, in particular to the
revit.alization of economic gronth and developnent of Ehs dgveloping countries.
and of the internaUional development strategy for the fourth United Nat.ions
deveLopment decade,

"Endorses Economic and Social council xesolution 1989/120 of
28 July 1989, entitled 'Development of hu.nan resources'."

9. At Lhe 49th rneet.ing, on IL December. the representative of the German
Democratic Republic withdrew draft resolutio'f, A/C.2/44/L.13 in Ehe light of tshe
adoption of draft resol.ution A/C,2/44/L.78 under agenda iten 82 (see
A/44/746/Add.ll, para. 17).

C. Drafc iesoLut ior'€ A/C.2/44/L,22 a'll L.34

10. At the 29eh neeting, on 2 Novenber. Ehe representative of Canada, on behaLf of
Australia. Austria. Erazil. BuLoaria, Canatla. Derunark, Finland, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of. Guatemala. HaiLi, the Netherlands, New zealand. Norwav, Spain.
Sweden, Thailand. Uqanda, the Union of Soviet Social.ist Republies. the !!q:!!eil
Kiagdom of Great Britain and NorEhern IreLand and the United States of america.
illroduced a drafe resolution lA/C.Z/44/L.22) entitled "Preveat,ion and control of
acquired lmmunodef ic iency syndrome (AIDS)". Su-bsequentLy. the German Democratic
Republic. Ic€land. Ireland, Poland. Suriqane- Turkev, Vanuatu. Zaire and ZambLa
joined in sponsorlng the draft resolution, which read as followss

"The General Assenblv.

"RecaLLinq its resofution 43/15 of 27 October 1988, Economic and Social
Councif resoluLion L989/108 of 27 JuIy 1989, world Health Assembly resolutions
wHA 42.20, WHA 42.33, and WHA 42,34 of 19 May 1989, other relevant
resolutions, the tondon Declaration on AIDS Prevention, f/ and the discussions
of the Fifth International Conference on AIDS, helil in Mont.reaf from 4 to
9 June 1989,

Z/ To be issued as Official Records of the General Assemblv. Fortv-fourth
Session. Supplerneut No. 3 (A/44l3/Rev.1), chap. VI, sect, A.3.

3/ A/43/34L-E/L988/8O. annex, appendix I.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 5

"The General Assembly,

"Having considered the part of the report of the Economic and Social
Council for 1989 that concerns the development of human resources, 1/

"Reaffirming the crucial role of hwnan resources for economic and social
progress and development,

"Taking into account the importance of the issue of human resources
development in light of the preparation for the special session of the General
Assembly devoted to international economic co-operation, in particular to the
revitalization of economic growth and development of the developing countries,
and of the international development strategy for the fourth United Nations
development decade,

"Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/120 of
28 July 1989, entitled 'Development of human resources· ...

9~ At the 49th meeting, on 11 December, the representative of the German
Democratic Republic withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.13 in the light of the
adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.18 under agenda item 82 (see
A/44/146/Add.ll, para. 11).

C. Draft resolutions A/C.2/44/L.22 and L.34

10. At the 29th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of Canada, on behalf of
Australia, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germagy,
Federal Republic of, Guatemala, Haiti, the Netherlands, New Zealand. Norway, Spain,
Sweden. Thailand. Uganda, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.22) entitled "Prevention and control of
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)". Subsequently, the German Democratic
Reoublic, Iceland, Ireland, Poland, Suriname, Turkey. Vanuatu, Zaire and Zambia
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 43/15 of 27 October 1988, Economic and Social
Council resolution 1989/108 of 21 July 1989, World Health Assembly resolutions
WHA 42.20, WHA 42.33, and WHA 42.34 of 19 May 1989, other relevant
resolutions, the London Declaration on AIDS Prevention, 1/ and the discussions
of the Fifth International Conference on AIDS, held in Montreal from 4 to
9 June 1989,

~/ To be issued as Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fourth
Session. Supplement No. 3 (A/44/3/Rev.l). chap. VI, sect. A.3.

~/ A/43/34l-E/1988/80, annex, appendix I.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a/ 44/ 832/ Add,, t
English
Page 6

"Ackrowl.edging the estabfish€d leadership of the tforld Health
OrganiEation i! directiDg ard co-ordiDating AIDS educaeion, Preventioa,
control and research,

"Notinq with appreciation the efforts of other organizations of the
United Naeions sysEen, aa ve]I as national GoverDnents and non-gove rrunenEal
organiu ations,

"vfelconinq, in particuLar, the World Heal,th Organization Global Progratrune
on AIDS. and notiDg that the world Health Orgatri zation/Utri Eed Natiors
Devetopment Progranme Atliance to Combat AIDS is facilitatinq the
inplementation at the counEry level of the gtobal Etrategy for the prevention
and control of AIDS,

'rRecallinq the resolutions of the GeDeral Assembly, worlal Health Assembly
and EcoDomic and Social Council concerning the need to r€sPect the hunan
rights and dignity of afl people, lncludiug those affected $ith the hunan
innunodef iciency vlrua (IIIV/AIDS). their fanilies and those t ith whom they
Live,

"Reaffirminq that tbe struggle agaitrst AIDS should be consistent ltith and
divert neither attention lror resources from other naEioual public health
Priorities aud developmert goal.s and 6hould noE divert internaeional efforts
ald r€sourc€a D€ed€d for ov€rall health prioritie6,

"l!!allg that AIDS can have eerious social atrd ecolornic conaequenceB,
particularly in coultries with a high incidence of lnfection fron the hurnan
inrnunodef icieacy virus and limited public health services and other
developmental reEourcea.

"Recognizing that, depending upon individual and €ocial circunstanceB,
wome! and chil.drea nay be at a higher risk of infectiou from the butna!
lrnmuaodeficiency virue alld may othertri66 6uffer deprlvatiotr as a conseguence
of the indirecC itnpact of AIDS on their fatnilies and eotlmunlti€s,

"Enphasizing the crucial irnportance of a supportive €oclo-ecouomic
environment to ensure Ehe effective inplemeDtation of, naEioaal AIDS preventlon
prograrunes and the hurnane care of aff€cLed persous,

"Recognizind the aeed for aLl sectors of society to contribute actively
to the toca1, qational and irterratioual efforts f,or HIV/AIDS Prevention an,al
control,

"Noting that scientific research is making progress in develoPiug
irnproved diagnostic. therapeutic and preventive technoLogie€ and
pharnaceuti cals, and stressiDg the inportance of, making these technologies attd
pharrnaceuticals avail,able as 6oon as possible and at an affordabfe cost,

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 6

"AcknQwledging the established leadership Qf the WQrld Health
Organization in directing and co-ordinating AIDS education, prevention,
control and research,

"Noting with appreciation the efforts of other organizations of the
United Nations system, as well as national Governments and non-governmental
organizations,

"Welcoming, in particular, the World Health Organization Global Programme
Qn AIDS, and nQting that the WQrld Health OrganizatiQn/United NatiQns
DevelQpment PrQgramme Alliance tQ CQmbat AIDS is facilitating the
implementatiQn at the cQUntry level of the global strategy for the prevention
and control of AIDS,

"Recalling the resolutions of the General Assembly, World Health Assembly
and Economic and Social Council concerning the need to respect the human
rights and dignity of all people, including those affected with the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS), their families and those with whom they
live,

"Reaffirming that the struggle against AIDS should be consistent with and
divert neither attention nor resources frQm Qther national public health
priorities and develQpment gQals and should not divert international efforts
and resources needed for overall health priorities,

"~ that AIDS can have serious social and economic consequences,
particularly in countries with a high incidence of infection from the human
immunodeficiency virus and limited public health services and other
developmental resources,

"Recognizing that, depending upon individual and social circumstances,
women and children may be at a higher risk Qf infection from the human
immunQdeficiency virus and may otherwise suffer deprivation as a cQnsequence
of the indirect impact of AIDS On their families and cQmmunities,

"Emphasizing the crucial importance of a supportive socio-economic
envirQnment to ensure the effective implementatiQn of national AIDS prevention
programmes and the humane care of affected persons,

"Recognizing the need for all sectors of society to contribute actively
to the local, national and international efforts fQr HIV/AIDS preventiQn and
control,

"Noting that scientific research is making progress in developing
improved diagnostic, therapeutic and preventive technologies and
pharmaceuticals, and stressing the importance of making these technologies and
pharmaceuticals available as SQOn as possible and at an affordable cost,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Al44/832/Add.L
English
Page 7

"1, Takes note of the report ofi the Dlrector-General of the World Health
Organization o! the cLobal Strategy for ehe preveDtior aud cortrol of AIDS and
the supplenentary report on AlDs-relateq actsivities being carried out by the
organizatiols of the United Nations systent l/

Secretary-General, in close co-operation with the Di rector -Gene raL of the
worLd Health Organizat.ion. to ensure a co-ordinated response by the Uuited
Nations systen t.o the AIDS pandemic pursuant to Economic and Social Council
resolution 1989/108 and General AssenbLy resolution 43l15i

"3, Requests the Sec retary-Gene ra1, in view of the potentially serious
inplications of the AIDS pandemic for socio-ecooornic developmenb in some
developing countries, to intensj.fy his efforh€, in collaboration with the
Director -GeDeral of the Wortd Health Organization, all other relevant.
organizations of the United Nations system, and the World Health
Organi zat.ion/Uni ted Nations DeveLopnent Progranme Alliance Co Conbat AIDS. to
nobilize the tech-nical and other relevanE resources of the United Nations
system. through co-ordinated research and progratnnes, Eo deal with this aspect
of the problen i

"4. Urges Menber States to increase their efforts in conbating AIDS and
to encourage, support antl facilit.ate national efforts to prevene the further
spread of AIDS,

"5. Calls upon international, natio[al and research institutions ald
organizationa to co-ordinate Cttelr activities so as to provide input to and be
supportlve of tbe policy of national AIDS cornmit.tees and the World gealth
Organizatior's Gl.obal AIDS Strategy in a rnanner appropriate Eo local
conditlone ard requirements i

world l{ealth Organization, in close collaboratioD with the other organiEations
of the United Natlons systen atrd without prejuatice to ongoing prioriti€s antl
Proqranmes, to cortinue to develop and advarce the global strategy for the
prevention and control of AIDS, and specificatly:

"(a) To pronote the contribution of non-governmental organlzatlons to the
global AIDS strategy through support. of national effortsi

"(b) To collaborate, as appropriate, with the UniCed Nat.ion6 Office at
vienna, the United Nations Chil-dren's Fund and other United Nation€ bodies,
Government.s and non-governmental. organizat.ions in their efforts Co develop!

4/ A/ 44/ 27 4-E/ 1989/75, annex, alj.d. A/ 44/27 4lAdd, t -El1989/?s/Add. 1.

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 7

"I. Takes"nQte Qf the repQrt Q~ the DirectQr-General Qf the WQrld Health
OrganizatiQn Qn the GlQbal Strategy fOf the preventiQn and cQntrQl Qf AIDS and
the supplementary repQrt Qn AIDS-relateQ activities being carried Qut by the
QrganizatiQns Qf the United NatiQns system; ~/

"2. Notes with appreciation and welcomeg the arrangements made by the
Secretary-General, in close co-operation with the.Director-General of the
World Health Organization, to ensure a co-ordinated response by the United
Nations system to the AIDS pandemic pursuant to Economic and Social Council
resQlutiQn 1989/108 and General Assembly resQlutiQn 43/15;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General, in view of the potentially serious
implications of the AIDS pandemic for socio-economic development in some
developing countries, to intensify his efforts, in collaboration with the
DirectQr-General Qf the WQrld Health OrganizatiQn, all Qther relevant
QrganizatiQns Qf the United NatiQns system, and the WQrld Health
OrganizatiQn/United NatiQns DevelQpment PrQgramme Alliance tQ CQmbat AIDS, tQ
mobilize the technical and other relevant resources of the United Nations
system, thrQugh cQ-Qrdinated research and prQgrammes, tQ deal with this aspect
Qf the prQblem;

"4. ~ Member States tQ increase their effQrts in combating AIDS and
tQ encQurage, suppQrt and facilitate natiQnal effQrts tQ prevent the further
spread Qf AIDS;

"5. Calls upon international, national and research institutions and
organizations to co-ordinate their activities so as to provide input to and be
suppQrtive Qf the pQlicy Qf natiQnal AIDS cQmmittees and the WQrld Health
OrganizatiQn's GIQbal AIDS Strategy in a manner apprQpriate tQ lQcal
conditions and requirements;

"6. Requests the Secretary-General tQ invite the DirectQr-General Qf the
WQrld Health OrganizatiQn, in clQse cQllabQratiQn with the Qther QrganizatiQns
Qf the United NatiQns system and withQut prejudice tQ QngQing priQrities and
prQgrammes, tQ cQntinue tQ develQp and advance the glQbal strategy fQr the
preventiQn and cQntrQl Qf AIDS, and specifically:

"(a) To prQmQte the cQntributiQn Qf nQn-gQvernmental QrganizatiQns tQ the
glQbal AIDS strategy thrQugh suppQrt Qf natiQnal effQrts;

"(b) TQ collabQrate, as appropriate, with the United NatiQns Office at
Vienna, the United Nations Children's Fund and other United Nations bodies,
Governments and non-governmental organizations in their efforts to develop:

~/ A/44/274-E/1989/75, annex, and A/44/274/Add.l-E/1989/75/Add.l.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A,/44/832/Adtt,I
English
Page I

"(i) Policies, prograrNnes and research ProPosalB to address the inpacE of
AIDS, incLuttinq lssues affecting romell, atrd Eo Proinote Cheir vital
role in preventing and controlling the Pandemic;

"(ii) Policies and prograrnmes Lo atleviate the inPact on chiLdren of AIDS
in all its aspecEs;

"(iii) Policies and Programnes to eombat the illicit traffic and abuse of
drugs with a vie-.{ to contribucing to a reduction in the sPread of
HIV infectiont

"(c) To Promote access of all peoPfes to aPPropriate Preventive.
diagnosLic and therapeutic technologiea and pharmaceut i cal s. and to helP rtake
these bechnologies and pharmaceuLicaJ. s available at an affordable costt

"(il) To Promote the active Participat.ion of public and private sector
elterprises, including through financial contributions. in HIv/AIDS prevenlion
and control effort.s at Ehe local, national and internacional leveJ's;

world gealth Organization to report Eo the General AssenbLy ah its forty-fifth
session, through the Economic and Social Council, ou the imPfementation of the
preselt resolution. "

11. At the 34th neet.ilg, or 15 November, the Vice-Chairman of the ConmitEee,
Mr. David Bruce Payton (Nex Zealalal), irtroduced a draft resolution
lA/C.2/44/L.34), suhnittsed on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resolution A/ C.2/ 44 /L.22.

L2. At the sane meeting, the representative of Kenya ProPosed an anendnent to
oPerative paragraph 3 of the draf,t resoluEion. by which the words "including at the
regional. and country level-s" would be inserted before the words "through
co-ordinated research ald progratunes'r.

13. Foll.owing a statement by the vice-ChaiFran, the Cornmittee decided to PostPone
consideration of draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.34 to a LaLer neeting.

14. At the 41st rneeting, on 21 Novenber. the vice-Chairman read out Lhe followiog
revisions to draft resolution A/C,2/44/L.34. which had been agreed uPon during
informal consuLtatioDsl

(a) In operative paragraph 3, the words "at all levels, incfuding at the
regional and country levels," were inserted before the words "through co-ordinaled
research and progra.mmes";

(b) In operative paragraph 5, the words "awareness of" were rePlaced by the
words "auareness about", and the word "rni E conceptio!" was changed to read
"nisconceDEioDs " .

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 8

"(i) Policies, programmes and research proposals to address the impact of
AIDS, including issues affecting women, and to promote their vital
role in preventing and controlling the pandemic;

"(ii) Policies and programmes to alleviate the impact on children of AIDS
in all its aspects;

"(iii) Policies and programmes to combat the illicit traffic and abuse of
drugs with a view to contributing to a reduction in the spread of
HIV infection;

"(c) To promote access of all peoples to appropriate preventive.
diagnostic and therapeutic technologies and pharmaceuticals, and to help make
these technologies and pharmaceuticals available at an affordable cost:

lI(d) To promote the active participation of public and private sector
enterprises, including through financial contributions, in HIV/AIDS prevention
and control efforts at the local, national and international levels;

"7. Reguests the Secretary-General to invite the Director-General of the
World Health Organization to report to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth
session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the implementation of the
present resolution."

11. At the 34th meeting, on 15 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. David Bruce Payton (New Zealand), introduced a draft resolution
(A/C.2/44/L.34), submitted on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resolution A/C.2/44/L.22.

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Kenya proposed an amendment to
operative paragraph 3 of the draft resolution. by which the words "including at the
regional and country levels" would be inserted before the words "through
co-ordinated research and programmes".

13. Following a statement by the Vice-Chairman, the Committee decided to postpone
consideration of draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.34 to a later meeting.

14. At the 41st meeting, on 21 November. the Vice-Chairman read out the following
revisions to draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.34, which had been agreed upon during
informal consultations:

(a)
regional
research

In operative paragraph 3. the words "at all levels, including at the
and country levels," were inserted before the words "through co-ordinated
and programmes":

(b) In operative paragraph 5, the words "awareness of" were replaced by the
words "awareness about", and the word '1misconception" was changed to read
"misconceptions".

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add.L
Engllsh
Page 9

15. At the s arae meeting, the Contnitete adopt€d draft resoLution A/C,2/44/L.34, as
orally revised, by consensus (see para. 47, draft resolutioD II).

16. In the light of the adoption of draft resoLutlon A/C.2/44/L.34. draft
resolution A/C.2/44/L.22 was lrithdrann by its sponsors.

D. Draft resolutions A/C.2/44./L,23 and Rev,l

f7. At tbe-29th meeting. on 2 Novenber. tbe representative of Morocco infroduced a
clraf t resolution (A/C.2/44lL.23) entitled "Patterns of consurnption and qualitative
indicators of deveLopnent", which read as follolrsl

"The General Assembly,

"Recallinq it6 resolutio'r 40/L79 of 17 December 1985, Ecoaomic and Social
Council resol.utiona 1987/6 of 26 May 1987 and !-98914 ot 22 May 1989 antl the
reportss of the Statisbical Corunission on the work of its twenty-fourth and
tt enty-fifth sessions, in particular the sections on developme|rt. indicators, 5/

"Reiteratinq that the subject of patterna of conswnption and relaEed
socio-economic indicators i6 of considerable irnportance and high Priority for
aleveloping countries,

"Reaffirmitrq that in order for the internationaL development straEegy for
the fourth U[lteal Nations development decade to be successful, there nust be a
range of indicators relatsilg to economic and sociaf progress, the appLication
of concerted obieccives and early-warning systems, with due regard for the
economic. technological, social and environmental aspects of develoEmett,

-1. Endors€s Eqononic ard Social Couucil resolut.ion L989/4 aDd regueets
the StatisticaL Office of the United Nation6 Secretariat ard tshe Uniteal
Nations Reaearqh lustiEute for Social Developn€nt to pursue actlvely th6ir
co-operation in collaboration with the other relevant organizati.ons in the
United Nations system, with a view to achieving the objectives 6€t ouc iu
paragraphs 2 and 3 belolri

"2. Recognizes that the identification of indicative patter!6 of
consumption aud the development of quaLitative indicators of develoPment would
be extrernely useful in the evaluatio! of the progres6 achieved in the
irnpfem€ntation of the interaational developmert strategy and woufd nake a
substantial contribution to the work of a United Nations conference on the
environmenh aud deve lolxnent i

5/ Offlclal Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1987, Supplement
No. 6 (E/1987/19), paras. 133-140, and iLid., 1989. sugplernent No. 3 (E/1989/2L't,
paras. 12 8 - 141.

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 9

15. At the same meeting, the Commitete adopted draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.34, as
orally revised, by consensus (see para. 47, draft resolution 11).

16. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.34. draft
resolution A/C.2/44/L.22.was withdrawn by its sponsors.

D. Draft resolutions A/C.2/44/L.23 and Rev.l

17. At the 29th meeting. on 2 November. the representative of Morocco introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.23) entitled "Patterns of consumption and qualitative
indicators of development tt , which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 40/179 of 17 December 1985, Economic and Social
Council resolutions 1987/6 of 26 May 1987 and 1989/4 of 22 May 1989 and the
reports of the Statistical Commission on the work of its twenty-fourth and
twenty-fifth sessions, in particular the sections on development indicators, }/

"Reiterating that the subject of patterns of consumption and related
socio-economic indicators is of considerable importance and high priority for
developinq countries,

"Reaffirming that in order for the international development strategy for
the fourth United Nations development decade to be successful, there must be a
range of indicators relating to economic and social progress, the application
of· concerted objectives and early-warning systems, with due regard for the
economic, technological, social and environmental aspects of development,

"1. Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/4 and requests
the Statistical Office of the United Nations Secretariat and the United
Nations Research Institute for Social Development to pursue actively their
co-operation in collaboration with the other relevant organiz~tions in the
United Nations system, with a view to achieving the objectives set out in
paragraphs 2 and 3 below;

"2. Recognizes that the identification of indicative patterns of
consumption and the development of qualitative indicators of development would
be extremely useful in the evaluation of the progress achieved in the
implementation of the international development strategy and would make a
substantial contribution to the work of a United Nations conference on the
environment and development;

~I Official Records of the Economic and Social Council. 1987, Supplement
~ (E/1987/19), paras. 133-140, and iQig.• 1989. Supplement No. 3 (E/1989/2l),
paras. 128-141.

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44 / 832 / Ad.d,r
Engl ish
Page 10

"3. Invites interested donor counEries, the relevant internat.ional
organizations and other bodies and institutio[s wishiug to Participate in the
research work on patEerns of consumptioE and qualitative indicaEors of
development to nake voluntary contrlbueious for that purpose to the UniEed
Nabions Research Institute for Social DevefoPm€nt $ith a view to the holding
in good tine of the preparatory rneetlng and the itrternational conference of
high-level experts for Ehe purpose of examining rrlethodo logi cal questions and
the conceptual aspecbs of the qualitative inalicacors of develoPment referred
to in paragraphs 8 and I of Economic and Social Council resolution Lgg9/4t

^4. Requests lhe sec recary-General to invite the United Nations Research
Institute for Social DeveLopment to submit a prelirninary progress rePorc on
the implementation of the present. resolution aDd of Econonic and Social
council resoLution 1989/4 for subnission to the Generat AssenbLy at iLs
forty-fifth session. "

18. At the 41st rneet.ing, on 2L November. the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.23/Rev.ll , subrnitted by the representative of MaLaysia
on behaLf of the States Membera of the Ulited Nat.ions that are members of the GrouP
ot 77.

19. At the 6arne neeting, the vic€-Chairman of the Cotnrnittee,
Mr. Badan Ochiryu DoLjint.sere! (uotrgolia). reported on Ehe results of informal
consultatioDa held on the revised draft resolution.

20, At the sane neeting, Lhe Comnittee adopted draf,t resolueion
A/C.2/44/L.23lRev.1 by consenEus (see para, 47, draft resolution III)

2L After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Malaysia (on
behalf of the States Members of the Unieed Nations that are members of the Group
of 77) made a staeenent.

Draft resolution A/C.2/44lt.25E.

22- At the 2qLh meeting, on 2 Novernber, the representative of Pakistan. on behalf
or Llqeria. Bahrain, c and Pakistan. introduced a draft
Iesolution \A/C.2/44/L.25) enLitled "Assistance to the Palestinian people". and
ora-lfy revised operative paraglaph t by adding the trords "report. anneaed to the"
before the lrords "note by the Sec ret.ary-Geueral " . SubaeguentLy, Mali joiued in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

23- At the 41st neeting, on 21 Novernber, the vice-Chairman inforned the ConniEtee
thaL. during informal consultations held on the draft resolution, it had been
agreed to further revise operat.ive paragraph I by deleting the words "with
appreciat.ion" after the words "Takes note" antl by deletiDg, at the end of the
paragraph, the words "containing, inter alia, project proposals identified by the
United Nations Centre for Human Settlenenes (HabitaE)".

1I/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 10

"3. Inyites interested donor countries, the relevant international
organizations and other bodies and institutions wishing to participate in the
research work on patterns of consumption and qualitative indicators of
development to make voluntary contributions for that purpose to the United
Nations Research Institute for Social Development with a view to the holding
in good time of the preparatory meeting and the international conference of
high-level experts for the purpose of examining methodological questions and
the conceptual aspects of the qualitative indicators of development referred
to in paragraphS 8 and 9 of Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/4;

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to invite the United Nations Research
Institute for Social Development to submit a preliminary progress report on
the implementation of the present resolution and of Economic and Social
Council resolution 1989/4 for submission to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session."

18. At the 41st meeting, on 21 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.23/Rev.l). submitted by the representative of Malaysia
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group
of 17.

19. At the same meeting. the Vice-Chairman of the Committee.
Mr. Badam Ochiryn Doljintseren (Mongolia), reported on the results of informal
consultations held on the revised draft resolution.

20. At the same meeting. the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/44/L.23/Rev.l by COnsensus (see para. 47, draft resolution Ill).

21. After the adoption of the draft resolution. the representative of Malaysia (on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group
of 77) made a statement.

E. Draft resQlution A/C,2/44/L,25

22. At the 29th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf
of ~lgeria, Bahrain. Cuba, Egypt, Mauritania and Pakistan, introduced a draft
resolution (A/C.2144/L.25) entitled "Assistance to the Palestinian people", and
orally revised operative paragraph 1 by adding the words "report annexed to the"
before the words "note by the Secretary-General", Subsequently, M.a.l.i joined in
sponsoring the draft reSOlution.

23. At the 41st meeting, on 21 November, the Vice-Chairman informed the Committee
that, during informal consultations held on the draft reSOlution. it had been
agreed to further revise operative paragraph 1 by deleting the words "with
appreciation" after the words "Takes note" and by deleting, at the end of the
paragraph, the words "containing, inter alia, project proposals identified by the
United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat)".

I • •.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A,/ 44/ 832/Add.L
English
Paqe 11

24. At the 6ane neetilg, the Conmittee adopted draft resolutLot L/C.2/44/L.25, as
orally revisetl, by a recorded vote of 132 to 2, with Z abseentions O/ (6ee
para. 47, draft reaol.ution IV). The voting was as followsl

In favour! Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia. Au€tria, Bahanas,
Bahrain, Bangfadesh, Barbados, BeLgium, Bhutan. Botivia,
Botswana, Brazil, BruDei Darussalan, BuLgaria, Burtina Faso,
Burundi. Byelorussian Sovlet Sociatist Republic, Carneroon, Cape
Verde, Centraf Africar Republic, Chad, Chile. China, Colornbia,
Congo, Costa Rica, C6te d,Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
DernocraEic Yemen. Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finlanal, France, Ganbia, Gernan Denocratic
Republic, Gernany, federal Repubi.ic of, Chana, Greece. Guatemala,
cuinea, cuinea-Bi6sau, cuyana, llaiti, Hungary. Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Repubtlc of). Iraq, IreLand, Ita.ly.
Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait., Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Mataysia. Maldives, Mali, Malta. Mauritanla, Mexico,
Mon96lia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepaf, NeEherlands, Nei'
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakiatan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, paraguay. peru, philippines, poland,
Portugal, Qatar. Romania, Rwanda, Satnoa, Sao Tone and principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Spain, sri Lanka,
Suriname, S$aziland, Sweden, Syria! Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad aud Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ulrainian
Soviet SocialisE Republic, Union of Soviet Soci.ali6t Republics,
United Arab Etnlrates, United Kingdom of Great. Britaln and
Northern lreland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet NaIn, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Asainst: Israel, UniEed States of America.

Abstainino! Antigua and Barbuda, Cauada.

25. Before the adoption of the draft resolueion, statenents were rnade by the
representatives of Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic, after it lras adopted,
st-aternents r{ere rnade by the represent.atives of the Uniteat State€ of America, France
(o. behaLf of the St.ates Members of bhe United Nations that are nenbers of the
European Economic Connunity). Nonf,ay. Auseria, Filland, Aust.ral,ia, Sweden, Canada
and JaDan.

6/ The delegaLion of Afghanistan subsequent.ly indicat.ed that, had it been
present during the voting, it would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 11

24. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.25, as
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 132 to 2, with 2 abstentions &/ (see
para. 47, draft resolution IV). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bi5sau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, LlbyanArab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Canada.

25. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic: after it was adopted,
statements were made by the representatives of the United States of America, France
(on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
European Economic Community), Norway, Austria, Finland, Australia, Sweden, Canada
and Japan.

Q/ The delegation of Afghanistan subsequently indicated that, had it been
present during the voting, it would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add.. L
Engl i sh
Page 12

F, Draft resolutio'lE A/C-2/44lL-31 and Rev-1 and 2

26. At the 31st meeting. on 6 November, the representative of Mafaysia, on behalf
of Belgiwn. Greece. ILaly, Jagan. Poland. Malavsia (on behalf of the States Members
Of the Unieed Nations that are mernbers of the Group of 77| and Turkev, introduced a
draft resolution lA/C.2/44lL.31) entitled "International. Decade for Natural
Disaster Reduction". Subsequently, Bulgaria, Hunqarv aEd Iceland joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"The General Assenbly,

"RecaLliag its resolution 42/!69 of 11 Decenber 1987, by which it decided
to designate the 1990s as a decade in $rhich the ineernat.ional cornmunity. under
the auspices of the United Nations, would pay special attention to fostering
internationaJ. co-operation in the fiefd of natural disaster reduction.

"Bearing in rnind the r€levalt. provisions of iEs resolutions 42,2169 and
43/202 of 20 December 1988, as well as EcoDomic and SociaL Council resolution
1989/99, in which the CourciL recommelrded that the cenera.L Assenbly take
action to develop an appropriate framework for attaiDing the objective and
goals of the Decade,

"Co!sideriug lhat natural disasters have adversefy affected the lives of,
a great nunber of people and caused considerable darnag€ to Lnfrastruccure and
ProPerty world wide, €€pecial.ly in dev€loping countries,

"Considering further that the internationaL comrnunity as a wtrole has now
inproved its capacity to confront tbis problen, ald that fata]ism aboue
natural disasters is no longer justified,

"Recogaizino the aeceasitl for the iDterDational conununity to demonstrate
the stroag political dsternitatioo requlred to mobilise aud use existitg
scientific and technical knowl€dge to nitigate naEural disasters, bearing in
mind in particufar ihe needa of d€veloping count.ries,

"Recognizino further the iinportant responsibility of the Utlited Natio!6
system as a r^'hole for promoting international co-operation in order to
mitigate naeural disasters, provide assistance and co-ordinate disa6ter
ielief. preparedness and prevention,

"Bearing in nind the crucial role of professional aad other
non-gove rnmental organiuations, particul.arly scientific and technologieaf
societies, humanitarian groups and investment institutions, whose
Participation i! lhe impl.enentation of specific programmes planned for the
Decade is highLy required,

"Bearing in mind further the need for the United Nations systetn Eo pay
special attention !o the least developed, land-locked and island devefoping
countries in that regard.

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 12

F. Draft resolutions A/C.2/44/L.31 and Rev.1 and 2

26. At the 31st meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Malaysia, on behalf
of Belgium, Greece, Italy, Japan. Poland, Malaysia (on behalf of the States Members
!t(__ J:he United Nations that are members of the Group of 77) and Turkey. introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.31) entitled "International Decade for Natural
Disaster Reduction lt • Subsequently, Bulgaria, Hungary and Iceland joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 42/169 of 11 December 1987, by which it decided
to designate the 19905 as a decade in which the international community, under
the auspices of the United Nations, would pay special attention to fostering
international co-operation in the field of natural disaster reduction,

"Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of its resolutions 42/169 and
43/202 of 20 December 1988, as well as Economic and Social Council resolution
1989/99, in which the Council recommended that the General Assembly take
action to develop an appropriate framework for attaining the objective and
goals of the Decade,

"Considering that natural disasters have adversely affected the lives of
a great number of people and caused considerable damage to infrastructure and
property world wide, especially in developing countries,

ttConsidering further that the international community as a whole has now
improved its capacity to confront this problem, and that fatalism about
natural disasters is no longer justified,

"Recognizing the necessity for the international cOl1U1lunity to demonstrate
the strong political determination required to mobilize and use existing
scientific and technical knowledge to mitigate natural disasters, bearing in
mind in particular the needs of developing countries,

".R.e..cognizing further the important responsibility of the United Nations
system as a whole for promoting international co-operation in order to
mitigate natural disasters, provide assistance and co-ordinate disaster
relief, preparedness and prevention,

"Bearing in mind the crucial role of professional and other
non-governmental organizations, particularly scientific and technological
societies, humanitarian groups and investment institutions, whose
participation in the implementation of specific programmes planned for the
Decade is highly required,

"Bearing in mind further the need for the United Nations system to pay
special attention to the least developed, land-locked and island developing
countries in that regard,

I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add.7
Engfish
Page 13

"Takinq note. rlith appreciation. of the report of the Seq retary-Gene ral
orr the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction. Z/

"Exgressinq its appre for the work done by the International
Ad Hoc Group of Experts on the International Decade for Naturaf Disaster
Reduction, which submihted its report to the Sec retary-Gene ra1 in Juoe 1989, 8/

"Bearinq in rnind the common position on natural disasters of the Ninbh
Coaference of Heads of St.ate or Gowelnrnent of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Belgrade in Septernber 1989, 9/

"1. Llo-c-f 4irc the rnternational Decade for Natural Disaster Reduqtion'
beginning on 1 January 1990i

"2. Decides to tlesignate 1 October International Day for Naturai.
Disaster Reduction, and to observe that Day annually during the Decade iD a
nanner befitting the objective and goals of the Decadet

Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction contained in the anner bo the present
resofution;

"4. Reguest€ the Secre tary-cene ral to subniL, to the General Assembly at
its forty-fifth session, a progress report on the iinplementation of the
present resolution, including the organizational arrangements nade for the
Deqade t

"5. Also requests the Sec re tary-General to bring the ptesent resolution
to the attention of a1l Goverrunents, inte rgove rrunentat organizations,
aPProPriate non-gove rnmental organizations in consul-lative status with the
Econornic and Sociaf Council and cornDetent scientific institutions in the fieLd
of disaster ni tigaLioni

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forEy-sixth
session an item entitfed 'International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction' .

7/ A/ 44/322-E/ L989/ It4.

B/ A/44/122-E/ L9 89/ 114,/Add.1, annex.

9/ See A/44l551-S/20870. annex.

11/44/83 21l1dd.1
English
Page 13

"Taking ncite, with appreciation, of the report of the Secretary-General
on the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, II

"Ex!,ressing its appreciation for the work done by the International
Ad Hoc Group of Experts on the International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction, which submitted its report to the Secretary-General in June 1989, ~/

"Bearing in mind the common position on natural disasters of the Ninth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Belgrade in September 1989, ~I

"1.
beginning

Pr~_claims the International
on 1 January 1990;

Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction.

"2. Decides to designate 1 October International Day for Natural
Disaster Reduction, and to observe that Day annually during the Decade in a
manner befitting the objective and goals of the Decade;

"3. Adopts the International Framework of Action for the International
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction contained in the annex to the present
resolution;

"4~ Requests the Secretary-General to submit, to the General Assembly at
its forty-fifth session, a progress report on the implementation of the
present resolution, including the organizational arrangements made for the
Decade:

"5~ Also requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution
to the attention of all Governments, intergovernmental organizations,
appropriate non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the
Economic and Social Council and competent scientific institutions in the field
of disaster mitigation;

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth
session an item entitled 'International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction' .

11 1I/44/322-E/1989/114.

81 A/44/322-E/1989/114/Add.1. annex.

21 See 11/44/551-5/20870. annex.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a/ 44/ 432/ Add.I
English
Page 14

" ANNEX

"InternationaL Franework of Action for the International
Decade for Natural Disa6cer Reduction

.A. OBJECTIVE AND GOALS

"1. The objective of the Decade is to reduce through concerted international
action, especially in devetoping countries, the loss of life, ProPerty danaqe,
and social and econonic disruption caused by natural disasters, such as
earthquaLes, windstorms, tsunanis. fLoods, LandsLides, vofcanic eruPtions'
wil-dfires, grasshopper and locust infestations, drought and desertification
and other calamities of naEural- origin.

"(a) To irnprove the capacity of each counEry to mitigate the effects of
natural disasters expeditiously and effectively, paying special atteution to
assisting developing countries ia the establishment of early warning systens
and di sa6 ter-r€sistant structures when and where neededi

"(b) To devlse appropriate guidelines and strategies for aPPlying
existing scienEific and technical knowledge. taking into account the cultural
and economic diversity amoqg Dat.ionsi

"(c) To foster 6ci€ntific ard eugineering endeavours ained at closing
criticat gaps itr knotrledge in order to reduce loss of Life and propertyi

"(at) To disseni[ate esisting and ner bechlical informatio! r€lated to
measurea for the a66essrnent, prediction and nitigaeion of Datural disastersi

"(e) To develop measur€a for the a66€sBment, prealictio!, Prevention and
nitigation of natural disasters through prograrmnes of technicat aasisEanc€ and
technology transfer, demonstration project.s, and education and traiDing,
taiforetl to specific diaasters and locationa, and to evaluate the
effectiveness of those programmes r

''B. POLICT MEAST'RES TO BE TAKEN AT THE NATIONAL LEVEL

"3. All Governnents are caLled upon to:

"(a) Fornul.ate national di saster-nitigation progralWnes i and Partlcularly
i! tteveloping countries, to fully itrtegrate them iDto their national
developnenC progranmesi

"(b) Participate during the Decade in concerted internationaL action for
th€ reductiotr of naEural disasters a!td, as appropriate, establ.iah traEional

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 14

"ANNEX

"International Framework of Action for the International
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

"A. OBJECTIVE AND GOALS

"1. The objective of the Decade is to reduce through concerted international
action, especially in developing countries, the loss of life, property damage,
and social and economic disruption caused by natural disasters, such as
earthquakes, windstorms, tsunamis, floods, landslides, volcanic eruptions,
wildfires, grasshopper and locust infestations, drought and desertification
and other calamities of natural origin.

"2. The goals of the Decade are:

"(a) To improve the capacity of each country to mitigate the effects of
natural disasters expeditiously and effectively, paying special attention to
assisting developing countries in the establishment of early warning systems
and disaster-resistant structures when and where needed:

"(b) To devise appropriate guidelines and strategies for applying
existing scientific and technical knowledge, taking into account the cultural
and economic diversity among nations:

II(C) To foster scientific and engineering endeavours aimed at closing
critical gaps in knowledge in order to reduce loss of life and property;

"(d) To disseminate existing and new technical information related to
measures for the assessment, prediction and mitigation of natural disasters;

"(e) To develop measures for the assessment, prediction, prevention and
mitigation of natural disasters through programmes of technical assistance and
technology transfer, demonstration projects, and education and training,
tailored to specific disasters and locations, and to evaluate the
effectiveness of those programmes.

"B. POLICY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN AT THE NATIONAL LEVEL

"3. All Governments are called upon to:

lI(a) Formulate national disaster-mitigation programmes; and particularly
in developing countries, to fully integrate them into their national
development programmes;

n(b) Participate during the Decade in concerted international action for
the reduction of natural disasters and, as appropriate, establish national

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a,/ 44/ A32/ Add.I
English
Page 15

committees in co-operation iriEh the relevant scientific and technologicaf
communities with a view to attaining the objective and goals of bhe Decaale;

"(c) Encourage their tocal adninistrations to take appropriate steps to
contribute to achieving Lhe purposes of the Decade,:

"(d) Keep the Se c retary-Gene r al informed of the plans of their countries
and of assistance that can be provided so that the Unitecl Nations may become
an internationaf centre for the erchange of information ancl the co-orclinat-ion
of internationaf efforhs concerning activities in support of Lhe objective arrcl
goals of the Decade, thus enabling each State to benefit from the experience
of other countries;

"(e) Take measures, as appropriate, Lo increase public awareness o.f Lhe
significance of preparedness. prevention. relief and recovery activities with
respect to natural disasters and enhance community preparedness through
education, training arld other means;

"(f) Pay due attention to the irnpact of natural disasters on health care.
particularly to activities to nitigate the vulnerability of hospitals and
heaLLh centres, as welf as the inpact on food storage facilities, hr.rman
sheller ard other social and econornic infrastructure.

"4. Scieatific and technoLogical institutions. financial instit.ution6,
inctuding banks and insurance companies, and industrial enterprises,
foundations and other related non-gove rnmental organizacions are encouraged to
support and part.icipate fully in the programrnes and activities of the Decade
prepared and imp]onented by the international community, including
Goverrunents, international organizations and non-gove rrunenLaL organizations.

.'C. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM

"5. The organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations systen are
urged to accord priority, as appropriate and in a concerted manner, to naturaL
disaster preparedness, prevertion, relief and recover:y in their operational
activities.

"6. The Department of Public Information of the United Nations Secietariat,
in cfose as6ociat.ion with the relevant organizaLi.ons of the Uniled Nations
system, as wefl as national information authorilies, is requested to formufate
and implement during Lhe Decade pubLic information programmes aimed at raising
avareness of disaster prevention among the general public.

"'l . The United Nations resident co-ordinaiors and the field representatives
of the United Nations system are requested to work closely and in a
co-ordinated manner with Governrnent.s to achieve the obiecLive and qoafs of the
Decade.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 15

committees in co-operation with the relevant scientific and technological
communities with a view to attaining the objective and goals of the Decade;

"(c) Encourage their local administrations to take appropriate steps to
contribute to achieving the purposes of the Decade;

"(d) Keep the Secretary-General informed of the plans of their countries
and of assistance that can be provided so that the United Nations may become
an international centre for the exchange of information and the co-ordination
of international efforts concerning activities in support of the objective and
goals of the Decade, thus enabling each State to benefit from the experience
of other countries:

"(e) Take measures, as appropriate. to increase public awareness of the
significance of preparedness, prevention, relief and recovery activities with
respect to natural disasters and enhance community preparedness through
educationr training and other means;

"(f) Pay due attention to the impact of natural disasters on health care,
particularly to activities to mitigate the vulnerability of hospitals and
health centres, as well as the impact on food storage facilities, human
shelter and other social and economic infrastructure.

"4. Scientific and technological institutions, financial institutions,
including banks and insurance companies, and industrial enterprises,
foundations and other related non-governmental organizations are encouraged to
support and participate fUlly in the programmes and activities of the Decade
prepared and implemented by the international community. including
Governments, international organizations and non-governmental organizations.

"C. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM

"5. The organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system are
urged to accord prioritYr as appropriate and in a concerted manner, to natural
disaster preparedness, prevention, relief and recovery in their operational
activities.

"6. The Department of Public Information of the United Nations Secretariat,
in close association with the relevant organizations of the United Nations
system, as well as national information authorities, is requested to formulate
and implement during the Decade public information programmes aimed at raising
awareness of disaster prevention among the general public.

"7. The United Nations resident co-ordinators and the field representatives
of the United Nations system are requested to work closely and in a
co-ordinated manner with Governments to achieve the objective and goals of the
Decade.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/832/Add,.L
English
Page 16

'8. The regional commissions of the United Nations are urged to play an
active role in inplementiDg the activities of the Decade. considering that
natural disasters often t.ranscend nalional bouadaries.
*9. The Secre t ary-General is requeseed to designate the Di recto r-Gene ral for
Development and IDternational Economic Co-operation a6 a focal point to secure
co-ordination of the progrannes and activities of the unitett Nations svsten
referred to above.

"10. The Sec retary-Gene ra1 is requested to report biennial.Iy to the Genefal
Assernbly, through the Econornic and Social Council, on the activities of the
Decade.

"D. ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS DURING THE DECADE

"1. Special Advisorv Counc i I

"11. The Secretary-ceneraf is regueated to establish, with due regard to
equitable geographical representation. a Special Advisory Council, consisting
of a limited numbe r of internationally eminent per6on6, in order Lo provide
him with overall advice sith respect to the Decade, to take appropriate action
to promote public atrareness and to mobifize the necessary support from the
public autl private seceors,

Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

"12, The Secretary-General is requested to establish, rrith due regard to
equicable geographical representation and covering th€ diversity of
di saster-mitigation issues, a Scientific atd Technical Comrnitcee on the
IEt.ernationa.l Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, consisting of Z0 to
25 scientific and t€chnicar eaperts serected in consurtation with their
Goverunents on the basis of their personnel capacities and qualifications and
including e*perts from the organs. organizations and bodies of the Unit€d
Nations sys tem.

"13. The role of the Connittee is to deveLop overall progranmes Eo be taken
into account in bilateral and multifateral co-operatioo for the Decade, paying
attention to priorities and gaps in technicaL knowledge identified at the
national, Ievel, in particular by national conmitteesi to assess and evaluaEe
the activities carried out in the course of the Decade, and to make
recommendations on the overall prograflunes in an annual report Eo the
Secretary-Gener al ,

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 16

"s. The regional commissions of the United Nations are urged to play an
active role in implementing the activities of the Decade, considering that
natural disasters often transcend national boundaries.

"9. The Secretary-General is requested to designate the Director-General for
Development and International Economic Co-operation as a focal point to secure
co-ordination of the programmes and activities of the United Nations system
referred to above.

"10. The Secretary-General is requested to report biennially to the General
Assembly, through the Economic and Social Council, on the activities of the
Decade.

"D. ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS DURING THE DECADE

"1. Special Advisory Council

"11. The Secretary-General is requested to establish, with due regard to
equitable geographical representation, a Special Advisory Council, consisting
of a limited number of internationally eminent persons, in order to provide
him with overall advice with respect to the Decade, to take appropriate action
to promote public awareness and to mobilize the necessary support from the
public and private sectors.

"2a Scientific and Technical Committee on the International
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

"12. The Secretary-General is requested to establish, with due regard to
equitable geographical representation and covering the diversity of
disaster-mitigation issues, a Scientific and Technical Committee on the
International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, consisting of 20 to
25 scientific and technical experts selected in consultation with their
Governments on the basis of their personnel capacities and qualifications and
including experts from the organs, organizations and bodies of the United
Nations system.

"13. The role of the Committee is to develop overall programmes to be taken
into account in bilateral and multilateral co-operation for the Decade, paying
attention to priorities and gaps in technical knowledge identified at the
national level, in particular by national committees; to assess and evaluate
the activities carried out in the course of the Decade; and to make
recommendations on the overall programmes in an annual report to the
Secretary-General.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add.L
Engli6h
Page 17

"3. Secretariat

"l-4, The Secretary-Gene ral is reguested to establish a 6nall secretariat, ae
follorrs:

"(a) The secretariat. sha1l be established at the United Nations Office at
Geneva, in association with the Office of the United Nations Disaster ReLief
co-ordinator, with its members drawn from slaff seconded fron relevant united
Nations organizations and, as appropriate, from governnental and
non-government.aL organizations, which sha11 bear the costs invoLvedt

"(b) The secret.ariat shalf be responsible for lhe day-Co-day
co-ordination of Decade activities and shaLt provide substantive and
secretarial support to the Special Advisory Councif and the Cornnittee, as well
as for other related activicies.

"15. It is reconvnended that extrabudgetary resources be provlded f,or
irnPlameltation of the D€cade and, therefore, that volu4tary contribut.ions from
GoverDmeuts. international orgatizations and other sources, including the
private secEor, be strongly eacouraged, To this end, a trust fuud shall be
€stsablished by the Secretary-Gene ral, who will be entrusted with its
adnini6tratio!.

"F. REVIEW

"16. Ttle Economic ald Social CoutciL will carry out a mid-term r€view of the
implemenbatio! of the Itternational Frane$ork of Actio[ during lbs second
rsgular seanl.oa of 1994 and report its finttitrgs to the General Assernbly..,

2'l . A statement by the Secretary-ceaeral on the programe budget inplications of
the draft resofution (A/C,2/44/L.37 ) wa€ subnitLed in accordance with ruLe 153 of
the rules of procedure of the Generaf Assernbly.

e8. At th€ 66Jne m€eting, hhe repreaentative of Japan mad6 a 6tat6m6Dt,

29. A revised draft rasolution, submitted by the sponsors of A/C.Z/44/L.31, now
joined by Albania. Austria. the Bvelorussian Soviet Socialist Republ.ic. China,
Czechoslovalia. fratce, the Gerrnan Democratic Repubtic. Ire1a.ud, Spain, the
Ukrainiatr Soviet Socialist Republic and the Union of SovieC Socl.al.Lst RepubLic6,
r{as subsequently circulated under the synbol AlC,2/44/L,3LlRev.l and read a6
foflows !

"The Geueral Asaemblv,

"Recalling its resolution 42/!69 of 11 Decenbe t L987, by which it decideal
to designate the L990s as a decade in lrhich the internaCional conrmunity, under

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 17

1t3. Secretariat

"14. The Secretary-General is requested to establish a small secretariat, as
follows:

"(a) The secretariat shall be established at the United Nations Office at
Geneva, in association with the Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief
Co-ordinator, with its members drawn from staff seconded from relevant United
Nations organizations and, as appropriate, from governmental and
nOD-governmental organizations, which shall bear the costs involved:

"(b) The secretariat shall be responsible for the day-to-day
co-ordination of Decade activities and shall provide substantive and
secretarial support to the Special Advisory Council and the Committee, as well
as for other related activities.

"E. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS

"15. It is recoll\lllended that e"trabuqgetary resources be provided for
implementation of the Decade and, therefore, that voluntary contributions from
Governments, international organizations and other sources, including the
private sector, be strongly encouraged. To this end, a trust fund shall be
established by the Secretary-General, who will be entrusted with its
administration.

"F. REVIEW

"16. The Economic and Social Council will carry out a mid-term review of the
implementation of the International Framework of Action during its second
regular session of 1994 and report its findings to the General Assembly."

27.
the
the

A statement by the Secretary-General on the progrSll\llle budget implications
draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.37) was submitted in accordance with rule 153
rules of procedure of the General Assembly.

of
of

~8. At the same meeting; the representative of Japan made a statement.

29. A revised draft resolution, submitted by the sponsors of A/C.2/44/L.31, now
joined by Albania, Austria, the Byelorussian Soviet SQcialist Republic, China,
Czechoslovakia, France, the German Democratic Republic, Ireland, Spain, the
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
was subsequently circulated under the symbol A/C.2/44/L.31/Rev.l and read as
follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 42/169 of 11 December 1987, by which it decided
to designate the 1990s as a decade in which the international community, under

I . •.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a/44l832,/Add.1
Engl i sh
Page 18

the auspices of the United Nations, lrould pay special attention to fosLering
internationaf co-operation in the fiefd of natural disaster reduction,

"Bearing in mind the refevant provisi.ons of its reso.lutions 42l169 ancl
43/2O2 of 20 Decenber 1988, as welf as Economic and Social Councif resofution
1989/99, in which the Council recornmended that the General Assembly take
action to deve.lop an appropriat.e framework for attaining the objective and
goals of the Decade,

"Considerinq that natura.l clisasters have adversely affected the lives of
a great nwnber of people and caused considerabfe damage to infrastrucbure an(-l
property r,rorld wide. especially in developing countries,

"Recognizi;1g the impoltance of environmental proLectiorr for the
prevention and mitigation of natural disasters.

"Considerinq further that the internationa-l community as a whole has now
inproved its capacity to confront this problem. and that fatalisn about
naturaL disasters is no longer justified,

"Recoqnizing the necessity for the internationaf community to demonst.rate
the strong political deLerrnination required to mobilize and use existing
scientific and technica] knowledge to mj.tigate naEural disast.er6, bearing in
nind in particutar the needs of developing countries.

"Recognizing further the important responsibifity of the United Nations
system as a whole for pronoting internationaf co-operation in order to
nitigate natural disasters. provide assisLance and co-ordinate disaster
re.I ief , preparedness and prevention,

"Recalling the specific r€ sponsibil i t.ies and functions in the fiel(l of
disaster preventiou and preparedness eDtrusted to the Office of the United
Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator as 6et out itr ibs resolutio! 2816 (:(xvl)
of 14 December 1.97I,

"Bearing in mind the crucial rote of professionaL and other
non-governmental organizations, particularfy scientific ayrd technological
societies, humanitarian groups and investment. iustitutions. whose
participation in the implenentation of specific prograrunes planned for the
Decade is highfy required,

"Bearipg in nind further the need for the United Nations system to pay
special attention to the least developed, Land-locked and island developing
countries in that regard,

"lakinq note, with appreciation. of the report of the Se cretary-General
on ghe International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction. 10,/

19/ A/ 44 / 322 -E/ L989/l14-

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 18

the auspices of the United Nations, would pay special attention to fostering
international co-operation in the field of natural disaster reduction,

"Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of its resolutions 42/169 and
43/202 of 20 December 1988. as well as Economic and Social Council resolution
1989/99, in which the Council recommended that the General Assembly take
action to develop an appropriate framework for attaining the objective and
goals of the Decade,

"Considering that natural disasters have adversely affected the lives of
a great number of people and caused considerable damage to infrastructure and
property world wide, especially in developing countries,

"Recognizing the importance of environmental protection (or the
prevention and mitigation of natural disasters,

"Considering further that the international community as a whole has now
improved its capacity to confront this problem, and that fatalism about
natural disasters is no longer justified,

"Recognizing the necessity for the international community to demonstrate
the strong political determination required to mobilize and use existing
scientific and technical knowledge to mitigate natural disasters, bearing in
mind in particular the needs of developing countries,

"Recognizing further the important responsibility of the United Nations
system as a whole for promoting international co-operation in order to
mitigate natural disasters, provide assistance and co-ordinate disaster
relief, preparedness and prevention,

"Recalling the specific responsibilities and functions in the field of
disaster prevention and preparedness entrusted to the Office of the United
Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator as set out in its resolution 2816 (XXVI)
of 14 December 1971,

"Bearing in mind the crucial role of professional and other
non-governmental organizations, particularly scientific and technological
societies, humanitarian groups and investment institutions, whose
participation in the implementation of specific programmes planned for the
Decade is highly required,

"Bearing in mind further the need for the United Nations system to pay
special attention to the least developed, land-locked and island developing
countries in that regard,

"Taking note, with appreciation, of the report of the Secretary-General
on the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, 101

101 A/44/322-E/1989/114.

I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A./44l832/Add.1
English
Page 19

"Ernphasizing that appropriate emergency planning for naeuraf disastera
and its integration in national aleveloprnent plans could also be very hefPful
in preventing, as a consequence. other kinds of disasters. such as Ehose of an
indusbriaf or technol.oqical nat.ure.

"Exgressing its appreciation for the work done by the International
A(L[oe Group of Experts on the International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction, vrhich subrnitted its report to the Secre tary-General in
June 1989. I!/

"Bearing in rnind Ehe conrnon posit.ion on natural disasters of the Ninth
Conference of Heads of State or Governnent of the Movetnent of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Belgrade in Septenber L989, LZ/

"1. Proclains the International Decade for NaburaL Disaster Reduction,
beginning on 1 January 1990i

Disaster Reduction, and to observe that Day annually during th€ Decade in a
manner befitting the obj€ctive and goaLs of the Decadet

"3. AdoPts the International Frame$ork of Action for the International
Deca,ale for Natural Disaster Reduction contaiDed in the anne! bo the pre6enE
resolut.ion; 

(

"4. Reouests th€ Secretary-General to subnit, to the General Assembly at
its forty-f,lfth se6sion, a progress report on the impLementation of the
present resolution, includiug the organizatioual arrangenents ma,ale f,or the
Decade, and on the status of existing internat.ional protocoLs and conventions
for mutual aasistance in case of disastersi

"5. .A,lso requests the Secretary-Gen€ ral to bring tbe presenE resolution
to the attention of alI GovarDmenta, intergovernmental organlzation6,
appropriate non-governrnental organizations in consultative status with the
Economic and Sociat CounciL and competent. scientific institutions in the field
of di6aster nitigation,

"6. Decides to incfude in the provisionat agenda of it6 forcy-sixtsh
session an itern entitled 'International Decade for Natural Disaster ReducEion'.

L / A/44/322-E/1989/114/Add.1, annex.

L2/ See A/44l551-S/20870. arnex.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 19

"Emphasizing that appropriate emergency planning for natural disasters
and its integration in national development plans could also be very helpful
in preventing, as a consequence, other kinds of disasters, such as those of an
industrial or technological nature,

"Expressing its appreciation for the work done by the International
a~ Group of Experts on the International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction, which submitted its report to the Secretary-General in
June 1989. III

"Bearing in mind the common position on natural disasters of the Ninth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries. held at Belgrade in September 1989. 121

"1. Proclaims the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction,
beginning on 1 January 1990;

"2. Decides to designate 1 October International Day for Natural
Disaster Reduction, and to observe that Day annually during the Decade in a
manner befitting the objective and goals of the Decade;

1t3. Adopts the International Framework of Action for the International
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction contained in the annex to the present
resolution;

(
"4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit, to the General Assembly at

its forty-fifth session, a progress report on the implementation of the
present resolution, including the organizational arrangements made for the
Decade, and on the status of existing international protocols and conventions
for mutual assistance in case of disasters;

"5. Also requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution
to the attention of all Governments, intergovernmental organizations,
appropriate non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the
Economic and Social Council and competent scientific institutions in the field
of disaster mitigation;

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth
session an item entitled 'International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction'.

III A/44/322-E/1989/l14/Add.l, annex.

121 See A/44/55l-S/20870, annex.

I •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a/44/832/AdA.l
Engf i sh
Page 20

''ANNEX

"International Franevork of Action for the Internationa.l
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

''A. OBJECTIVE AND GOALS

"1. The objective of the Decade is to reduce through concerted internat.ional
action. especially in developing countries, Ehe loss ot IiEe, propert'y damage,
and social and economic disruption caused by natural disasters, such as
earthquakes, {indstorms. tsunamis. floods, landsliales. vofcanic eruptions,
l{ildfires, grasshopper and locust. infestations, drought ancl desertification
and other calamities of natural oriqin.

"2, The goals of the Decade are!

"(a) To improve the capacity of each counlry to rnit-igate the effects of
natura.l disasters expeditiously and effecLively, paying speciaf attention to
assisting developing count!ies in the assessment of disaster damage potential
and in the establishment of earl.y warning systens aDd disaster iesistant
structures when and lrhere needed;

"(b) To devise appropriate guidelines and strategies for applying
existing scientific and technical knowledge, taking into account the cuftural
and economic diversity anong nationsi

"(c) To foster scientific and engineering endeavours ained at closing
critical gaps in knolrJ.edge in order to reduce foss of life and property,

"(d) To disseninate existing and ne\,r technical information related to
neasures for the aasessment. prediction and mitigation of natural disastersi

"(e) To develop neasures for the as6essnent, prediction, prevention and
mitigation of natural disasters through progratnmes of technical assistance and
Lechnology t.ransfer, demonstration projects, and education and training,
tailored to specific disasters and locations, and to evaluate the
effectiveness of those progrannes.

''8, POLICY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN AT THE NATIONAL LEVEL

"3. A11 Governments are called uDon to:

"(a) Formufate naLional disast.er-mitigation prograrnrnes, as welt as
economic, land use and insurance policies for disaster preventioni ancl
Particularly in developing countries, to ful.Iy integrate thern into Lheir
national development programmes;

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 20

"ANNEX

"International Framework of Action for the International
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

"A. OBJECTIVE AND GOALS

"1. The objective of the Decade is to reduce through concerted international
action, especially in developing countries, the loss of life, property damage,
and social and economic disruption caused by natural disasters, such as
earthquakes, windstorms, tsunamis, floods, landslides, volcanic eruptions,
wildfires, grasshopper and locust infestations, drought and desertification
and other calamities of natural origin.

"2. The goals of the Decade are:

"(a) To improve the capacity of each <;=ountry to mitigate the effects of
natural disasters expeditiously and effectively, paying special attention to
assisting developing countries in the assessment of disaster damage potential
and in the establishment of early warning systems and disaster-resistant
structures when and where needed;

"(b) To devise appropriate guidelines and strategies for applying
existing scientific and technical knowledge, taking into account the cultural
and economic diversity among nations;

"(c) To foster scientific and engineering endeavours aimed at closing
critical gaps in knowledge in order to reduce loss of life and property;

"(d) To disseminate existing and new technical information related to
measures for the assessment, prediction and mitigation of natural disasters;

"(e) To develop measures for the assessment, prediction, prevention and
mitigation of natural disasters through programmes of technical assistance and
technology transfer, demonstration projects, and education and training,
tailored to specific disasters and locations, and to evaluate the
effectiveness of those programmes.

"B. POLICY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN AT THE NATIONAL LEVEL

"3. A.Il Governments are called upon to:

"(a) Formulate national disaster-mitigation programmes, as well as
economic, land use and insurance policies for disaster prevention; and
particularly in developing countries, to fully integrate them into their
national development programmes;

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44l832/Add.1
Engl i sh
Page 21

. "(b) ParLiciPate during the Decade in concerted internationaf action for
the reduction of natural disasters and' as aPproPriate, establish national
committees in co-operation with the relevant scienLific and technological
communities and other concerned sectors vrith a viev. to attaining the objective
and goals of the Decadei

"f.l nn.-^!!ra.'c their locat administrations to take approPriate stePs Lo
mobilize the necessary supPort from the Public and Private sectors and to
contribute Lo achieving Lhe purPoses of the Decadet

"(d) Keep the Sec retary-Cene r al informed of the Plans of their countries
and of assistance that can be Provided so that the United Nations may become
an international centre for the exchange of information and the co-ordination
of international efforLs concerning activiLies in support of the objective and
goals of the Decade, thus enabling eacb State to benefit from the experience
of other countries;

"(e) Take measures, as apProPriate, to increase Public awareness of
damage risk probabiLities and of the significance of Preparedness' prevention'
relief and recovery activities with respect to natural disasters and to
enhance community PreParedness through education, training and oEtrer means'
taking into accounb the specific rote of the news nediat

"(f) Pay due attention to Ehe impact of nabural disasters on health care'
particufarly to act.ivities to fllitigate the vulnerability of hospitals and
health centres, as wefl as the imPact on food storage faciliEies, hunan
sheJ.ter and oth6r social and economic i.nf r astructure i

"(g) ImProve the early international availability of apProPriate
emergency supplies through the storage or earmarking of such euppJ'ies in
disaster-prone areas.

"4. Scient.ific and technoLogical institutions, financial institutions'
iucluiling banks and insurance companies, aud industrial enterPrises'
foundations and obher related non-gove rnmeotal organizations are encouraged to
suppor! and participate full.y in the Progranrnes and activities of the Decade
prepared and inplemented by the international comnunity, including
Goverrunents, international organizations and non-governmental organizations'

''C. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM

"5. The organs, organizations and bodies of the uniLed Nations sysbem are
urged t.o accord PrioriEy, as aPpropriate and in a concerted nanner. to natural
disaster preparedness, preveDtion, relief and recovery including economic
darnage risk assessrnent in their oPerational activities. The Sec retary-Gene ral
is request.ed, in this regard, to elsure that adequabe neans are made available
to the office of the united Nations Disaster Relief co-ordinator so that it
rnay diligently discharge its sPecific role and responsibilities in the field
of disaster mitigation and response in conformity wiLh its mandate. as
contained in General Assenbly resolution 2816 (tcwl) of 14 December 1971'

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 21

"(b) Participate during the Decade in concerted international action for
the reduction of natural disasters and, as appropriate, establlshnational
committees in co-operation with the relevant scientific and technological
communities and other concerned sectors with a view to attaining the objective
and goals of the Decade:

"(c) Encourage their local administrations to take appropriate steps to
mobilize the necessary support from the public and private sectors and to
contribute to achieving the purposes of the Decade:

"(d) Keep the Secretary-General informed of the plans of their countries
and of assistance that can be provided so that the United Nations may become
an international centre for the exchange of information and the co-ordination
of international efforts concerning activities in support of the objective and
goals of the Decade, thus enabling each State to benefit from the experience
of other countries;

"(e) Take measures, as appropriate, to increase public awareness of
damage risk probabilities and of the significance of preparedness, prevention,
relief and recovery activities with respect to natural disasters and to
enhance community preparedness through education, training and other means,
taking into account the specific role of the news media;

"(f) Pay due attention to the impact of natural disasters on health care,
particularly to activities to mitigate the vulnerability of hospitals and
health centres, as well as the impact on food storage facilities, human
shelter and other social and economic infrastructure;

"(g) Improve the early international availability of appropriate
emergency supplies through the storage or earmarking of such supplies in
disaster-prone areas.

"4. Scientific and technological institutions, financial institutions,
including banks and insurance companies, and industrial enterprises,
foundations and other related non-governmental organizations are encouraged to
support and participate fully in the programmes and activities of the Decade
prepared and implemented by the international community, including
~overnments, international organizations and non-governmental organizations.

"C. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM

"5. The organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system are
urged to accord priority, as appropriate and in a concerted manner, to natural
disaster preparedness, prevention, relief and recovery including economic
damage risk assessment in their operational activities. The Secretary-General
is requested, in this regard, to ensure that adequate means are made available
to the Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator so that it
may diligently discharge its specific role and responsibilities in the field
of disaster mitigation and response in conformity with its mandate, as
contained in General Assembly resolution 2816 (XXVI) of 14 December 1971.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ A32 / Add,.l
Engl ish
Paqe 22

'6. The Secretary-General, lhrough the Departnent of public Information of
the United Nations Secretariat, and ia close association wittr the relevant
organizations of Che United Nations system. as well as natioqal iuformat.io!
authorities. is requested to assist in the formulation and implenentation
during the Decade of public infornation prograrunes aimed aE raising awarsness
of disaster prevention among the general public.

^7. The United Nations resident co-ordinaeors and the field representatives
of the United Nations system are requested Eo work c]osefy and in a
co-ordinated manner with Governrnent6 to achieve the objective and goals of the
Decade.

^8. The regional commissions of the United Nations are urged to p.1ay an
active roLe in implenenting the activities of the Decade, considering that
naturaL disasters often transcend national bouudaries.

"9. The SecreEary-General is requested to desigtate the Di recto r -Gene ral for
Developmelt and lDternational Economic Co-operation as a focal point to secure
co-ordination of the progrannes and activities of the United Nations systen
referred to above.

"10. The Secre tary-General is requested to report biennially to the General
Assenbly, through the Econonic and Sociat Council, on the activities of the
Decade.

.D. 
ORGAI.TI ZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS DURING TIIE DECADE

"1. Sgecial Advisory Council

"11. The Sec retary-General i6 requestad Eo establish, rlth due regard to
eguilable geographical. representation, a Special Advisory CounciL, consisting
of a linited nunber of internationalty eminent persons, in order to provide
him witb overaLl advlce with respect bo the Decade, to take appropriate action
to pronote public awareness and to nobilize the necessary support from the
public and private sectors.

"2, Scieatific and Technical Conunittee olr the InterpaEional
Decade for Natural Disascer Reductioa

"12. The Sec retary-cenera.L is requesLed to eatabl.i6b, with due regard to
equit.able geographical representagion ald coveriag the diversity of
di sas te r-mi tigation issues, a Scientific and Technical Cornrnittee on the
International Decade for NaturaL Disaster Reduction, consisting of ZO to
25 scientific and technicaL experts selecced in consultation with their
Governnents on the basis of their personnel capacities and quafifications and
including experts from the organs. organizations and bodies of the Ulited
Nations syslen.

1\/ 44 / 8 321 Add. 1
English
Page 22

"6. The Secretary-General, through the Department of Public Information of
the United Nations Secretariat, and in close association with the relevant
organizations of the United Nations system, as well as national information
authorities, is requested to assist in the formulation and implementation
during the Decade of pUblic information programmes aimed at raising awareness
of disaster prevention among the general public.

"7. The United Nations resident co-ordinators and the field representatives
of the United Nations system are requested to work closely and in a
co-ordinated manner with Governments to achieve the objective and goals of the
Decade.

"8. The regional commissions of the United Nations are urged to play an
active role in implementing the activities of the Decade, considering that
natural disasters often transcend national boundaries.

"g, The Secretary-General is requested to designate the Director-General for
Development and International Economic Co-operation as a focal point to secure
co-ordination of the programmes and activities of the United Nations system
referred to above.

"10. The Secretary-General is requested to report biennially to the General
Assembly. through the Economic and Social Council. on the activities of the
Decade.

"D, ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS DURING THE DECADE

"1. Special Advisory Council

"11. The Secretary-General is requested to establish. with due regard to
equitable geographical representation. a Special Advisory Council. consisting
of a limited number of internationally eminent persons, in order to provide
him with overall advice with respect to the Decade, to take appropriate action
to promote public awareness and to mobilize the necessary support from the
public and private sectors.

"2. Scientific and Technical Conunittee on the International
Decade fQr Natural Disaster Reduction

"12. The Secretary-General is requested to establish, with due regard to
equitable geographical representation and covering the diversity Qf
disaster-mitigation issues, a Scientific and Technical Committee on the
International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, consisting of 20 to
25 scientific and technical experts selected in consultation with their
Governments on the basis of their personnel capacities and qualifications and
including experts from the organs, organizations and bodies of the United
Nations system.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ A32/ Add.L
English
Page 23

"13. The role of the Committee is to deveLop overaff prograrunes to be Eaken
into account in bilateraf and rnuftifateral co-operation for the Deeade, Paying
attention to priorities and gaps in technical knol'ledge identified at the
national. 1eve1. in particular by national committees; to assess and evafuate
the activities carried out in the course of the Decaale, ancl to make
recommendations on the overall Droqrammes in an annual report to the
Sec re tarv-Gene ral .

"3. Sec retar i at

"14. The Sec retary-Gene ral is requested to establish a small secretariat, as
follows:

"(a) The secretariat shall be established at the United Nation6 Office at
Geneva, in close association with the office of the United Nations Disaster
Relief Co-ordinator. with its nembers drawn fron staff seconded from relevant
United Nations orgarization€ and, as appropriate, from governmental and
non-governnental organizations, which shall bear the cosLs involvedi

"(b) The secretariat shall be responsible for the day-to-day
co-ordination of Decade activities and shall provide subslantive and
secretarial support to the Special Advisory Council and the Committee, as well
as for other related activities.

FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS

"15. Ic is recommended that extrabudgetary resources be prorrided for
implemeatation of the Deqad€ aud, therefore, thae voluntary contrlbuEions from
Goverment.s, internaeional organizat.ions and other sources, iDcludinE the
private sector, be strongly encouraged. To this end, a trusE fund shall be
estabLiGhed by the Secretary-GereraL, who vi}l be entrusted with its
administration.

.F. REVIEW

"16. The Economic and Social Council wilf carry out a mid-term review of tbe
implementation of the International Framework of Action during its second
regufar session of 1994 and report its findillgs to the Generaf Assenbfy."

30. AL the 49th meeting, on 11 December. the Committee had before it a further
revision of the draft resolut.ion (A/c.12/44/L.31/Rev.2), submitted by the sponsors
of draft resolut.ion A/C,2/44/L.3LlRev,1, nou joined by Canada, FinIand. New zeaLand
and Norwav. Subsequently. Luxembourg. Portugal and the United States of Anerica
also joined in sponsoring the revised draft resolution.

31. A slatement by the Sec retary-Gene ral on the progranrne budget irnplications of
draft resolution A/C.2/44/L"31/Rev.2 (a/C.2/44/L.37lRev.1) was submlteed in
irccordance with ruLe 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly.

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 23

"13. The role of the Committee is to develop overall progranunes to be taken
into account in bilateral and multilateral co-operation for the Decade, paying
attention to priorities and gaps in technical knowledge identified at the
national level, in particular by national committees; to assess and evaluate
the activities carried out in the course of the Decade: and to make
recommendations on the overall programmes in an annual report to the
Secretary-General.

"3. Secretariat

"14. The Secretary-General is requested to establish a small secretariat, as
follows:

"(a) The secretariat shall be established at the United Nations Office at
Geneva, in close association with the Office of the United Nations Disaster
Relief Co-ordinator, with its members drawn from staff seconded from relevant
United Nations organizations and, as appropriate, from governmental and
non-governmental organizations, which shall bear the costs involved;

"(b) The secretariat shall be responsible for the day-to-day
co-ordination of Decade activities and shall provide substantive and
secretarial support to the Special Advisory Council and the Committee, as well
as for other related activities.

"E. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS

"15. It is recommended that extrabudgetary resources be provided for
implementation of the Decade and, therefore, that voluntary contributions from
Governments, international organizations and other sources, including the
private sector, be strongly encouraged. To this end, a trust fund shall be
established by the Secretary-General, who will be entrusted with its
administration.

"F. REVIEW

"16. The Economic and Social Council will carry out a mid-term review of the
implementation of the International Framework of Action during its second
regular session of 1994 and report its findings to the General Assembly."

30. At the 49th meeting, on 11 December, the Committee had before it a further
revision of the draft resolution (A/C.12/44/L.31/Rev.2), submitted by the sponsors
of draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.31/Rev.1, now joined by Canada. Finland, New Zealand
and Norway. Subsequently, Luxembourg, Portugal and the United States of America
also joined in sponsoring the revised draft resolution.

31. A statement by the Secretary-General on the programme budget implications of
draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.31/Rev.2 (A/C.2/44/L.37/Rev.1) was submitted in
Qccordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



L/ 44/ 832/ Add,. L
English
Page 24

32, At the sane rneeting, th€ vice-Chairman, Mr. Baalarn Ochiryn Doljintseren
(Mongolia), inforrned the Committee that. duriug informal consultations hel"d ou the

- revised draft resolution, it had been agreed to f,urther revi6e operative
paragraph 2 by replacing the word ',first" by the word ,,6€coud,, before the word
"wednesday" and by adding the words "during Che Decade" after the word6 .,observed
annual ly" .

33. The Secretary of the Committee orally revi6ed draft resolution
A/ C. 2 / 44/L, 3t./Rev: 2 accordingly.

34. At the same rneeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.Zl44/L,3L/Rev.2, as oral.ly revised, by cousensus (see para. 47, AtafE
resolution V).

35' Before the adoPtion of the draft resoLutioa, the repreaentative of the United
States of Anerica nade a statementi after it was adopted, sCatemeota rere made by
the repre6eaeatives of the Federal. Republic of Gern6!y, Malaysia (on behalf of the
States Menbers of the United Natiors that are nembers of the croup of 77), Japan
and Morocco ,

G. Draft reaolutiorrg 
^/C-2/44/L-46 ^'nd, 

L-74

36, At the 44th rneeting, on 24 November, the repr€seatatLve of Kenya, on behaLf of
the African Seates, introduced a draft resolutiol (A/C.2/44/L.46) e[titled "second
indust.rlal d€velopnent decade for Africa',, uhlch r€ad a6 folLowa!

"The €€lera]- Aasenblv,

"Recallinq its regolution 35/66 B of 5 December t98O on the Induaerl.al.
Develolxmont Dacad€ for Africa,

"Recallins Econornl.c and Social Councit r66olution fg87/7O of I July 198?
in rhich th€ Councll reconun€Dded that, after approprlate evaluation of the
Induatrial Development Decade for Africa, the proclamatiou of a s€cond decade
shouLd be considered in order to €rpedite the process of Africa,s
indus tr i al ization,

"Recaflinq also resolution AgG,/Res.180 ()ory) of the Assenbly of Heads of
State and covernmenC of tbe Organization of African U[ity ltr/ on th€
procLamation of a second industrial devefopment decad€ f,or Afrl,ca ald oD an
Af ricaD industrialiEation day,

"Recalling Economic ard Soclal Council reaolution 1989/115 of
28 July 1989 on the proclarnation of a second Lndu6trial deveLopment decade for
Afr ica,

13/ See A/44l603, annex III.

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 24

32. At the same meeting, the Vice-Chairman, Mr. Badam Ochiryn Doljintseren
(Mongolia), informed the Committee that, during informal consultations held on the
revised draft resolution, it had been agreed to further revise operative
paragraph 2 by replacing the word "first" by the word "second" before the word
"Wednesday" and by adding the words "during the Decade" after the words "observed
annually" .

33. The Secretary of the Committee orally revised draft resolution
A/C.2/44/L.3l/Rev.2 accordingly.

34. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/44/L.3l/Rev.2, as orally revised, by consensus (see para. 47, draft
resolution V).

35. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement; after it was adopted, statements were made by
the representatives of the Federal Republic of Germany, Malaysia (on behalf of the
States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77), Japan
and Morocco.

G. Draft resolutions A/C.2/44/L,46 and L.74

36. At the 44th meeting, on 24 November, the representative of ~, on behalf of
the African States, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L.46) entitled "Second
industrial development decade for Africa", which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 35/66 B of 5 December 1980 on the Industrial
Development Decade for Africa,

"Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1987170 of 8 July 1981
in which the Council recommended that, after appropriate evaluation of the
Industrial Development Decade for Africa, the proclamation of a second decade
should be considered in order to expedite the process of Africa's
industrialization,

"Recallino also resolution AHG/Res.180 (XXV) of the Assembly of Heads of
State and Government of the Organization of African Unity 111 on the
proclamation of a second industrial development decade for Africa and on an
African industrialization day,

"Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/115 of
28 July 1989 on the proclamation of a second industrial development decade for
Africa,

111 See 11./44/603, annex Ill.

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/832/Add.L
English
Pag€ 25

"WeLconing Industrial Development Board decision IDB.s/Dec,7 of
6 JuIy 1989 on the Industrial Developnent Decad€ for Africa, io which the
Board recornmended that. the General Conference of Che United Nations Indu6trial
Develo[nnent OrgaDization request the General Assembly to procfaim a second
industrial developnent decade for Africa,

"1. Proclaims the period f99I-2000 the Second IndusCriat Developm€nt
Decade for Africa,

"2, Further proclaims 20 Novenber as Africa Industrialization Day, for
the purpose of mobilizing the commitment of the international- corununity to the
industrialization of Af ricat

"3. Reguests the Secretaly-Genera.L of the United Natioos, in
consultation with the Di rector -ceneral of the United Nations fndustrial
Dev€lopment OrganiEation, Ehe Secretary-General of the Organization of African
Unity, the r€fevant subregional and regioual economic groupings in Africa and
the United Nations bodies eoncerted. to undertake the necessary preparations
for the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa and t.o subnit, through
the Economic and Social Council, a r€port on those preparations to the General
Assembly at its forty-fifth session.',

37. At the 49th meeting, on 11 Dacenber, the Vice-Chairman introduced a draf,t
resolutio! (A/C.2/44/L.74 ), subnitted on the basis of informal consultations held
on draft reaol.utioD A/C.2 / 44/L.46 ,

38. A statement by the Secreeary-ceneral. on the prograrnne budget implications of
the draft resoLution . (A/ C.2 / 44/L,77 ), was submitted in accordarce with rule 153 of
Che rules of procedure of the General Assernbly.

39. At the same ne€Eitrg, the Comnittee adopted draft re€olutioa A/C.Z/44/L,74 l
vithout a vote (see para. 47, draft resolution vI)

40. In the light of the atloption of draft resotution AlC.Z/44/L.74, draft
resolution A/C,2/44/L.46 was erithdra!.n by its sponsors.

41. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements rdere made by the
representatives of Liberia (on behalf of the African States) and france (on behatf
of the States Members of the U4ited Nations that are members of the Europea!
Economic Community),

g. Draft resolution A,/C. 2,/44lL. 59

42. At the 46th neetitg, on 27 November. the representative of Ecuador iatroduced
a draft resol.ution (A/C.2/44/L.59) entitled "World Decade for Cultural DeveloDment"

43. At the 48th neeting, on 4 Decernber, the Vice-Chairrnan read out the following
revisions, which had been agreed upon during informal consufEationss

Al44/832/Add.l
English
Page 25

lIWelcoming Industrial Development Board decision IDB~5/Dec.7 of
6 July 1989 on the Industrial Development Decade for Africa. in which the
Board recommended that the General Conference of the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization request the General Assembly to proclaim' a second
industrial development decade for Africa.

"1. Proclaims the period 1991-2000 the Second Industrial Development
Decade for Africa:

"2. Further proclaims 20 November as Africa Industrialization Day, for
the purpose of mobilizing the commitment of the international community to the
industrialization of Africa:

"3. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in
consultation with the Director-General of the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization, the Secretary-General of the Organization of African
Unity, the relevant subregional and regional economic groupings in Africa and
the United Nations bodies concerned, to undertake the necessary preparations
for the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa and to submit. through
the Economic and Social Council, a report on those preparations to the General
Assembly at its forty-fifth session."

37. At the 49th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman introduced a draft
resolution (A/C.2/44/L.74). submitted on the basis of informal consultations held
on draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.46.

38. A statement by the Secretary-General on the programme bUdget implications of
the draft resolution.(A/C.2/44/L.77). was submitted in accordance with rule 153 of
the rules of procedure of the General Assembly.

39. At the same meeting. the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.74
without a vote (see para. 47. draft resolution VI).

40. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.74. draft
resolution A/C.2/44/L.46 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

41. After the adoption of the draft resolution. statements were made by the
representatives of Liberia (on behalf of the African States) and France (on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the European
Economic Community).

H. Draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.59

42. At the 46th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Ecuador introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2144/L.59) entitled "World Decade for Cultural Development".

43. At the 48th meeting, on 4 December, the Vice-Chairman read out the following
revisions, which had been agreed upon during informal consultations:

I ••.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a,/ 44 / 832 / Add.. L
English
Page 26

(a) In operative paragraph B, the words "global review proposed irr
Lraragraph 92 of the relevant report" were replaced by the words "global revieu for
Lhe purpose of evaluation, as reconmended in paragraph 92 of the report", and the
wor-ds "wich a statement. of the financial impfications" before the $rords "to the
Gerre ral Assembly" were deletedi

(l)) In operative paragraph 9. the words "Lo convene a mid-Decade Conference
i.n 1q93" were replaced by the words "for the conduct of an evaluation at the
rnid-point of the Decade in 1993".

44. At the same meeting, the Comrnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.59, as
orally revised, by consensus (see para. 47, draft. resolution vII).

I. Documents refatinq to the report of the Economic and
Social Council

45. At its 51st rneeting, on 17 December, on the proposal of the Chairnan, the
Committee decided to recommend t'o tlte Generaf Aasembly that it should E.ake note of
the docunents under the iten on which no draft proposals had been submitted (see
para. 48, draft decisiou I).

J. Draft biennial progratnne of work for the Second CowniEtee
for 19 90 -1991

46. At the 53rd rneeting, on 20 Decernber, the SecreEary of Ehb Cornmittee introduced
the draft biennial programre of work for the Second Cornmittee for 1990-1991
(A/C.2/44/L.82) and orally revised it, After staternenis by the rePresent.atives of
Mexico and Canada, the Connit.tee decided to arnend the Eit]e of itern 2 (a) for 1990
to read "Internationaf developnent strat.egy for the fourth United Nations
deve.lopment decade (199L-20O0)', and it approved the draft biennial Prograrur€ of
work for the S€cond Conmittee for 1990-1991 IA/C.2/44/L,82), as orally revised and
amended, and decided to reconmend it to the General Assernbfy for adoption (see
Dara. 48. draft decision II).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OE THE SECOND COMMITTEE

41 . The Second Cornrnit.tee recornnends to the ceneral Assernbly the adoption of Lhe
f o,l ]owinq draft re so fut.ions I

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 26

(a) In operative paragraph 8, the words "global review proposed in
paragraph 92 of the relevant report" were replaced by the words "global review for
the purpose of evaluation, as recommended in paragraph 92 of the report", and the
words "with a statement of the financial implications" before the words "to the
General Assembly" were deleted;

(b) In operative paragraph 9, the words "to convene a mid-Decade Conference
in 1993" were replaced by the words "for the conduct of an evaluation at the
mid-point of the Decade in 1993".

44. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/44/L.59, as
orally revised, by consensus (see para. 47, draft resolution VII).

I. Documents relating to the report of the Economic and
Social Council

45. At its 51st meeting, on 17 December, on the proposal of the Chairman, the
Committee decided to recommend to the General Assembly that it should take note of
the documents under the item on which no draft proposals had been submitted (see
para. 48, draft decision I).

J. Draft biennial programme Qf work fQr the Second Committee
for 1990-1991

46. At the 53rd meeting, on 20 December, the Secretary of the Committee introduced
the draft biennial programme of work for the Second Committee for 1990-1991
(A/C.2/44/L.82) and orally revised it. After statements by the representatives of
Mexico and Canada, the Committee decided to amend the title of item 2 (a) for 1990
to read "International development strategy for the fourth United Nations
development decade (1991-2000)", and it approved the draft biennial programme of
work for the Second Committee for 1990-1991 (A/C.2/44/L.82), as orally revised and
amended, and decided to recommend it to the General Assembly for adoption (see
para. 48, draft decision 11).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

47. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ A32/ Add.L
English
Page 27

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Trends in the transfer of resources to and from the devefoDinq
countries and their imPact on the economic qrowth and sustained

deveLopment of those countriec

The General As sernblv,

&e-qe!-li!g its resolutions 4L/2Oz of I Decenber 1986 on strengthened
internati.onal economic co-operation aimed aE resolving the external debt Problems
of developing countries, 42/LgB of 11 Decenber 1987 on furthering incernational
co-operation regarding the external debt probfen and 43/198 of 20 December 1908 on
external debt crisis and devetopnent ! towards a clurable solution of the debt
problems,

Recallino also its resolution 43/197 {)f 20 Decernber 1988 0n fulfilnent of the
target for official developnent assistance.

Takiuq lote of Econonic and Social council decision 1988/160 of 27 July 1988
on the net transfer of resources from deveJ.oping co devetoPed countries and
resolutio! 1989/fl2 of 28 July 1989 on the net Eransfer of resources from
devetoping countries and its inPact on their economic grovtth and devefoPmeqt,

Aware that the pronounced dectine in the flou of resources, severe external
indebtedneas, deterioration in terms of, trade. long-term downward trend of
conmodity price€, continued protectionism and other trade measures, resulEed in a
net transfer of resources from develoPing countries'

Deeply concerned that such a Phenomenon is scilt contributing to dePriving the
developing countries affecEed of resources needed for economic growth and Eustained
developm€nt and nay threaten their social and Politicat stability,

Bearins in mind Ehat, owing co the PersiaEent atructural inbaLa[ces of Ehe
world economy. the devel.oping countries contiuue to face najor Problems in the
areas of noney, finance, resource flows, trade, comnodities and erternal debt,

Gravelv concerned that the trend in the net flolr of resourc€s indicates the
urgent need for all countries to act in a concerted way to address this Problen in
orclef to ensure the reactivation of economic growth and sustained deveLol,ment of
the developing countr ies,

I. IIIge'a the internationa.I community to adoPt concrete measures in or'iler to
ensure adequate resources for the reactivation of econOmiC grot{th aDd Susbained
development in developing countries, taking into account the follolting
recorunendaCions !

(a) The GoverrunentE of develoPed countries should Promoce an adequate flow of
resources to developing countries. and donor countries Bhould bring uP the official
developnent hssist.ance rate as quickly as Possibfe to internationally agreed
t.arqets i

A/44/83UAdd.l
English
Page 27

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Trends in the transfer of resources to and from the developing
countries and their impact on the economic growth and sustained

development of those countries

The General Assembly.

Recalling its resolutions 411202 of 8 December 1986 on strengthened
international economic co-operation aimed at resolving the external debt problems
of developing countries. 42/198 of 11 December 1987 on furthering international
co-operation regarding the external debt problem and 43/198 of 20 December 1988 on
external debt crisis and development: towards a durable solution of the debt
problems,

Recalling also its resolution 43/197 of 20 December 1988 on fulfilment of the
target for official development assistance,

Taking note of Economic and Social Council decision 1988/160 of 27 July 1988
on the net transfer of resources from developing to developed countries and
resolution 1989/112 of 28 July 1989 on the net transfer of resources from
developing countries and its impact on their economic growth and development,

Aware that the pronounced decline in the flow of resources, severe external
indebtedness, deterioration in terms of trade~ long-term downward trend of
commodity prices~ continued protectionism and other trade measures, resulted in a
net transfer of resources from developing countries~

Deeply concerned that such a phenomenon is still contributing to depriving the
developing countries affected of resources needed for economic growth and sustained
development and may threaten their social and political stability,

Bearing in mind that~ owing to the persistent structural imbalances of the
world economy~ the developing countries continue to face major problems in the
areas of money, finance~ resource flows~ trade, commodities and external debt,

Gravely concerned that the trend in the net flow of resources indicates the
urgent need for all countries to act in a concerted way to address this problem in
order to ensure the reactivation of economic growth and sustained development of
the developing countries,

1. ~~ the international community to adopt concrete measures in order to
ensure adequate resources for the reactivation of economic growth and sustained
development in developing countries, taking into account the following
recommendations:

(a) The Governments of developed countries should promote an adequate flow of
resources to developing countries~ and donor countries should bring up the official
development assistance rate as quickly as possible to internationally agreed
targets:

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44 / 432/ Ad.d.1
Enc|-t r sn
I'age 28

(b) Where appropriat.e, nacional econornic measures should be taken bhat are
colducive to sapital formation in developing countries experiencing insufficiency
of savings and flow of erternal resourcesi

(c) In order to overcone the longstanding enternal indebLedness of developing
'.olrnt,ries. there shoulcl l)e, inter a]ia, and as appropriate. a significant reductiorrjD t-he stock of debt and debt service that i6 sufficiently large Lo contr.ibute to
tlre attainment of the objective of the resumption of vigorous growth and susLained
r]evelopment in indebted developing countriesi

(d) The Governments of countries nenbers of multifateral financial
irtsLitutions should ensure that these institutions have an adequaLe tevel of
resources for a full discharge of their mandate in order to contribute to rneeting
the needs and requj.rements of the econornic and sociaf progranmes of developing
countries in the context of an approach consistent with the socio-economic
objectives, growth and developnent. priorities of those countries;

(e) Intensified efforts should be made
structuraf adjustrnent, maintain the vigour of
containing inflation, and work toirards a mix
wou.ld allow interest rales to corne down, and
internationa-I econonic cl imate t

by industrial count!ies to continue
Lheir eapansion while reducing and/or

of fiscal and nonetary policies that
hence induce a nore favourable

(f) All Goverrunents should rdork tor.rards a rnore operr international trading
system Lhat improves access especially for the export product.s of developing
countries, particularly in the context of the Uruguay Round of mult.ilateral. trade
negoti ations i

Z. Reconmends that the Trade and Developnent Board of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Developrnent at its thirty-sevenEh session shouLd give
in-alepth consideration to the transfer of resources to and from developing
countries:

3. Invites the Joint Ministerial Comtnittee of lhe Board of Governors of the
Wor-ld Bank and the Internatj-onal Monetary Fund on the Transfer of Real Resources to
Developing Countries t.o continue its work anal to give in-depth consideration to the
l:.rarnsfer of resources to and from developinq countries;

4. Requests the Sec re tary-Gene ral to report to the General Assembly at its
rorLy-fifth session on the impfementat.ion of the recornmendations contained in
paraqr:aph 1of the present resolution.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 28

(b) Where appropriate, national economic measures should be taken that are
conducive to ~apital formation in developing countries experiencing insufficiency
of savings and flow of external resources;

(c) In order to overcome the longstanding external indebtedness of developing
t'onntries, t.here should be, inter alia, and as appropriate, a significant reduction
ill t.he stock of debt. and debt service that is sufficiently large to contribute to
the attainment of the objective of the resumption of vigorous growth and sustained
development in indebted developing countries:

(d) The Governments of countries members of multilateral financial
institutions should ensure that these institutions have an adequate level of
resources for a full discharge of their mandate in order to contribute to meeting
the needs and requirements of the economic and social programmes of developing
countries in the context of an approach consistent with the socio-economic
objectives, growth and development priorities of those countries:

(e) Intensified efforts should be made by industrial countries to continue
structural adjustment, maintain the vigour of their expansion while reducing and/or
containing inflation, and work towards a mix of fiscal and monetary pOlicies that
would allow interest rates to come down, and hence induce a more favourable
international economic climate;

(f) All Governments should work towards a more open international trading
system that improves access especially for the export products of developing
countries, particularly in the context of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade
negotiations;

2. Recommends that the Trade and Development Board of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development at its thirty-seventh session should give
in-depth consideration to the transfer of resources to and from developing
countries;

3. Invites the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Board of Governors of the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the Transfer of Real Resources to
Developing Countries to continue its work and to give in-depth consideration to the
transfer of resources to and from developing countries;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session on the implementation of the recommendations contained in
paragraph 1 of the present resolution.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ a12/ Add.L
Engl ish
Page 29

DRATT RESOLUTION II

Prevention and control of acquired inmunode f ic iency
svndrone ( AIDS )

The ce4cral_3_ssslDlJ,

Recalling its resolutio'f 43/15 of 27 Octobef 1988, Econornic and Sociaf Council
resolution 1989/1oE of 27 July 1989, World Health Assembly resoLutions WHA 42.20.
WHA 42.33 and WHA 42,34 of 19 May 1989, other relevant resolutions. the London
Declaration on AIDS Prevention Llll antt the discussions of the Fifth International
Conference on AIDS, held at Montreal, Canada. fron 4 to 9 June 1989.

Acknowledging the established leadership of the world Heafth orgauizaLion in
directing and co-ordiDating AIDS education, preveltion, control and research,

Notinq with appreciation the effort.s of other organizations of the United
Nations sy6Eem, as v,efl as national Gavelntnents, inte rgoverrunentaL organLzaLiotis,
non-gove rnmental organizations and the Public and Private sector, in cornbating the
spread of AIDS,

Wel.coming, itx particular, the World HealEh Organizacion Global Prograrnrne on
AIDS, and noting that the WorLd Health Orqani zation/United Nations Development
Progranrne Altiance to Combat AIDS is facilitating the implementation at the country
level of the global strategy for the Prevention and controL of AIDS,

Recalling the resolutions of the General Assetnbly. the worfd Health Assenbly
and the Economic and Social Council concerning the need to respect ths hurnan rights
and diguity of alf peopfe, including tho6e affected by th3 humafl innunode fic iency
virus (HIV), tbeir fanilies and those with whorn they live,

Reaffirming that the slruggle against AIDS shoulil be cousistenb with and
divert neither attention nor resources fron other nationat public health priorities
and developnent goals and should not divert international efforts and resources
needed for overall health priorities,

Aware that AIDS can have serious social and economic consequences,
paiticularly in countries {ith a high incidence of infection fron tbe hunan
imrnun<icle f ic iency virus (HIv) and limited Public heallh services and obher
clevelopmental resources.

Bee psa]-a LaS that, dePending uPon individual and social circumstances, ltomen
and children may be at a higher risk of infection from the human innunode f i c iency
virus (HIv) than previously recognized and nay other$tise suffer dePrivation as a
consequence of the iDdirect inpact of AIDS on their families and cornmunities'

L!/ A/43/34L-E/1988/80, annex. appendj.x I.

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 29

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Prevention and control of acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (AIDS)

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 43/15 of 27 October 1988, Economic and Social Council
resolution 1989/108 of 27 July 1989, World Health Assembly resolutions WHA 42.20,
WHA 42.33 and WHA 42.34 of 19 May 1989, other relevant resolutions, the London
Declaration on AIDS Prevention 14/ and the discussions of the Fifth International
Conference on AIDS, held at Montreal, Canada. from 4 to 9 June 1989,

Acknowledging the established leadership of the World Health Organization in
directing and co-ordinating AIDS education, prevention, control and research,

Noting with appreciation the efforts of other organizations of the United
Nations system, as well as national Governments, intergovernmental organizations,
non-governmental organizations and the public and private sector, in combating the
spread of AIDS,

Welcoming, in particular, the World Health Organization Global Programme on
AIDS, and noting that the World Health Organization/United Nations Development
Programme Alliance to Combat AIDS is facilitating the implementation at the country
level of the global strategy for the prevention and control of AIDS,

Recalling the resolutions of the General Assembly, the World Health Assembly
and the Economic and.Social Council concerning the need to respect the human rights
and dignity of all people, including those affected by the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV), their families and those with whom they live,

Reaffirming that the struggle against AIDS should be consistent with and
divert neither attention nor resources from other national public health priorities
and development goals and should not divert international efforts and resources
needed for overall health priorities,

~ware that AIDS can have serious social and economic consequences,
particularly in countries with a high incidence of infection from the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and limited public health services and other
developmental resources,

Recognizing that, depending upon individual and social circumstances, women
and children may be at a higher risk of infection from the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) than previously recognized and may otherwise suffer deprivation as a
consequence of the indirect impact of AIDS on their families and communities,

14/ A/43/341-E/1988/80, annex, appendix I.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A,/ 44/ 832/ Ada.l
EngIj.sh
Page 30

Enpha€j-Ei4S the cruciat irnportance of a support.ive socio-economic envirorunent
to ensure the effect.ive implenentat.ion of nationaL AIDS prevention prograrnmes and
ttlre humane care of affected persons,

Recoqni&ing the need for aI1 sectors of society to contribute actively to the
Iocaf , nationaf aud internationa.L ef f orts f or HMAIDS prevention and conerof ,

Noting that scieniific research is naking progress in developing inproved
diaqnostic, therapeut.ic and preventiwe technologies and pharmaceuci c afs, and
stressing the imPortance of making these technologies and pharmaceuticals available
as soon as possible and at an affordable cost,

1. Takes note of the report of the Di recto r-Gene ral of the world Health
Organization on the global strategy for the preventi.on and control of AIDS and the
supplementary report on AlDs-related activities being carried out by the
organizations of the United Nations €ystemi l5l

2. Notes with apprecialion and welcomes the arrangements made by the
Sec retary-Gen€ raf , iE close co-operation lrith the Director-General of the World
Heallh Organization, to ensure a co-ordinated response by Che United Nations systern
to Che AIDS pandernic Pursuart to Economic and Social Council resofution 1989/108
and General Assembly resol,utioD 43/15t

3. Requestg tlte Secretary-Gene raL, in view of the potent.ially serious
irnplications of the AfDS pandemic for socio-ecouonic developnent in sone developing
countries, to intensify his efforts. in collaboration wiEh Ehe Di rector-General of
the World Health Organizatio!. all other relevant organizations of the Unlted
Nations system, and Ehe tforld Health Organj ration/United NaEions DeveLoprent
Progranrne Alliance to Conbat AIDS, to rnobilize the lechnical and other rel€vant
resources of the U[ited Natious sy6tem, at all leve].s, includiug at Ehe regioral
and country levels, Chrough co-ordinated research and programmes, to deal with thi6
aspect of the probleni

4. Urges Member States to increase their €fforts in combating AIDS and to
encouralle, support and facilitate national efforts Eo prevent the further spread of
AIDS,

5. Calfs upon Govelnments, the WorLd Health Organization. al1 other relevant
Unit.ed Nacions organizations, intergove rrul|ental organl,zations and non-gover nenta].
organizations, to Prornote greater anareness abouE the Eransnission of the pandemic
in order to avoid misconceptions as much as possible, and to increase the
understanding of the general public towards people affected by the hunan
immunodef iciency virus (HfV),

15/ A/ 44/ 27 4-E/1989/75, annex, a'jd A/ 44/ 27 4/Add. l-El1989/7slAdd. 1.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 30

~mohasizing the crucial importance of a supportive socie-economic environment
to ensure the effective implementation of national AIDS prevention programmes and
the humane care of affected persons,

Recognizing the need for all sectors of society to contribute actively to the
local, national and international efforts for HIV/AIDS prevention and control,

Not~~ that scientific research is making progress in developing improved
diagnostic, therapeutic and preventive technologies and pharmaceuticals, and
stressing the importance of making these technologies and pharmaceuticals available
as soon as possible and at an affordable cost,

1. Takes note of the report of the Director-General of the World Health
Organization on the global strategy for the prevention and control of AIDS and the
supplementary report on AIDS-related activities being carried out by the
organizations of the United Nations system; 15/

2. Notes with appreciation and welcomes the arrangements made by the
Secretary-General r in close co-operation with the Director-General of the World
Health Organization, to ensure a co-ordinated response by the United Nations system
to the AIDS pandemic pursuant to Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/108
and General Assembly resolution 43/15;

3. Reguest£ the Secretary~Generalr in view of the potentially serious
implications of the AIDS pandemic for socio-economic development in some developing
countriesr to intensify his efforts r in collaboration with the Director-General of
the World Health Organization r all other relevant organizations of the United
Nations system, and the World Health Organization/United Nations Development
Programme Alliance to Combat AIDS, to mobilize the technical and other relevant
resources of the United Nations system, at all levelsr including at the regional
and country levels, through co-ordinated research and programmes, to deal with this
aspect of the problem;

4. ~ Member States to increase their efforts in combating AIDS and to
encourage, support and facilitate national efforts to prevent the further spread of
AIDS;

5. Calls upon Governments, the World Health Organization, all other relevant
United Nations organizations, intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental
organizations r to promote greater awareness about the transmission of the pandemic
in order to avoid misconceptions as much as possible r and to increase the
understanding of the general public towards people affected by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV);

15/ A/44/274-E/1989/75, annex, and A/44/274/Add.l-E/1989/75/Add.l.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/A32/ Add.I
English
Page 31

. 6. Also calls uDon international, national and res€arch institutions and
organizations to co-ordinate their activities so as to Provide inPut to and be
supportive of the poticy of national AIDS committees and the globaf AIDS strategy
of the world Health Organization in a manner apPropriate to local conditions and
requi rements ;

7. RequesCs Lhe Sec retary-Gene ral to invite the Di rector -Gelre r a] of the
Wofld Health Organization, in cfose collaboraLion vith the other organizaLions of
the United Nations system and without prejudice to ongoing priorities and
proqrannes. to continue Lo develop and advance the global strategy for Lhe
prevention and contiol of AIDS. and specificalfy:

(a) To prornote the contribution of non-gove rnmental organiEations to the
global AIDS strategy through support of national effortst

(b) To col.Laborale, as appfopriate, with the united Nations office at Vienna,
the United Nations Chitdren's !'und ancl oLher United Nations bodies, Goverrunents an(
non-gove runental organizations in their efforts to develoP!

(i) Poficies, Prograrnnes and research Proposals to address the irnPact of
AIDS. iucluding issues affecting wornen, and to PronoEe their vital role
in preventing and conblofling the Pandemici

(ii) Policies and Prograntrnes to alleviate Ehe inPact of ArDs, in all its
aspect6, on children;

(iii) Poticies and progranmes to conbat the illicic t.raffic and abuse of drugs
with a view to contributing to a reduction in the spread of HIv infectiol

(c) To promote acces6 of alf Peoptes to apProPriate Preventive, diagnostic
and therapeutic bechnologies and pharmaceuti cal s, and to heLP make th€se
technologies and pharnaceuticafs available at an affordable costt

(d) To Promote bhe acCive participation of Public and private secEor
euterprises, including through financi.af contributions, in HMAIDS Prevention and
conLrof efforts at the local, naCional and internatioual levels;

B. Requests the Sec retary-GeDe r af to invite the Di recto r -GeDe ral of the
worl,:l Health Organization co report to the General Assetnbfy at it6 forty-fifth
session. through the Economic anal Sociaf CounciL, on the itnPlementation of the
'\esent reso lution.

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 31

l 6. Also calls upon international, national and research institutions and
org~nizations to co-ordinate their activities so as to provide input to and be
supportive of the policy of national AIDS committees and the global AIDS strategy
of the World Health Organization in a manner appropriate to local conditions and
requirements;

7. Regue~ the Secretary-General to invite the Director-General of the
World Health Organization, in close collaboration with the other organizations of
the United Nations system and without prejudice to ongoing priorities and
programmes, to continue to develop and advance the global strategy for the
prevention and control of AIDS, and specifically:

(a) To promote the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the
global AIDS strategy through support of national efforts:

(b) To collaborate, as appropriate, with the United Nations Office at Vienna~
the United Nations Children's Fund and other United Nations bodies, Governments an~
non-governmental organizations in their efforts to develop:

(i) Policies, programmes and research proposals to address the impact of
AIDS, including issues affecting women, and to promote their vital role
in preventing and controlling the pandemic:

(ii) Policies and programmes to alleviate the impact of AIDS, in all its
aspects, on children;

(iii) Policies and programmes to combat the illicit traffic and abuse of drugs
with a view to contributing to a reduction in the spread of HIV infectio~

(c) To promote access of all peoples to appropriate preventive, diagnostic
and therapeutic technologies and pharmaceuticals, and to help make these
technologies and pharmaceuticals available at an affordable cost:

(d) To promote the active participation of public and private sector
enterprises, including through financial contributions, in HIV/AIDS prevention and
control efforts at the local, national and international levels;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to invite the Director-General of the
World Health Organization to report to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth
session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the implementation of the
~~esent resolution.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add. r
Engl ish
Page 32

DRAF'T RESOLUTION III

Patter[s of couEwnptiotr apd gualitative itdicators
of devel.opnenE

The Generaf Assembly,

Recallinq its resolution 40/L79 of 17 Decenber 1985, Economic and Sociat
Council resolutions 1987/6 of 26 May 1987 and 1989/4 of 22 allay 1989 anal the reports
of the Statistical Conmissiotr on the work of its tyenty-fourth aDd twenty-fifth
ses6ions, in partipular the sections on deveLopment indicators, 1lOl

Reiterating that the subject of patterns of consumption and retated
socio-economic indicators is of considerabte imporeance and high priority for
developing countries,

Reaffirming that, in order for the international. developrnent Btrategy for the
fourth United Nations development decade Co be auccegsful, ehere nust. be a range of
indicators relating to economic and sociaf progress, the application of concert.ed
objectives and early-warning systems. with due regard for the economic,
technofogical, social and eDvironmental aspect.s of development.

1. Endorses Economic and Social Council resolut.ion LgBg/4, and requests the
StatsisticaL Office of the Unitetl Natiotrs Secretariat and the United Natioas
Research rn6titut€ for social Developnert to puraue actively their co-operation in
collaboration with the other rolevant organizations in the ulited Nations syst.en,
trith a view Co achieviDg Ehe objectives set oue in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Council
resolution f989/4.

2. RecognLz€s that the idencification of indicative patt€rna of consumption
and th6 developrent. of qualitative iDdicators of developmelt ,r{ould be extr€mely
usefuf in the evaluation of the progress achieved in tshe implenentation of the
internaeioaal develoPtnenb €t.ratsgy and woutd make a substantiaL contribution to the
work of a Unlted Nations conference on the elvl,roDnent and dev€lopnenti

3. Invites interested donor countries, the relevatrt international
organizations and other bodies and institutions trishing to participate in the
re6earch work on PaCterns of consunpt.ion and qualitative indicator6 of developnent
to nake voluntary contributioas for chat purpoBe to the united Nations Research
Institute for Social Development with a view to Che holding in good tine of the
preparatory meeting and the internatioaal conferenc€ of high-l.evel experts referred
to in paragraphs I and 9 of EcoDomic and Social Council resolut.ion I9B9/4,

L5/ Official Records of tbe Econonic and Social CounciL, 1982. Supplenent
No. 6 (E/1987/19), paras. 133-140 and ibid., 1989. Supgtement No. 3 (E/L999/2L),
oaras. 12 8 - 141.

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 32

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Patterns of consumption and qualitative indicators
of development

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 40/179 of 17 December 1985, Economic and Social
Council resolutions 1987/6 of 26 May 1987 and 1989/4 of 22 May 1989 and the reports
of the Statistical Commission on the work of its twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth
sessions, in partipular the sections OD development indicators, IQI

Reiterating that the subject of patterns of consumption and related
Bocio-economic indicators is of considerable importance and high priority for
developing countries,

Reaffirming that, in order for the international development strategy for the
fourth united Nations development decade to be successful, there must be a range of
indicators relating to economic and social progress, the application of concerted
objectives and early-warning systems, with due regard for the economic,
technological, social and environmental aspects of development,

1. Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/4, and requests the
Statistical Office of the United Nations Secretariat and the United Nations
Research Institute for Social Development to pursue actively their co-operation in
collaboration with the other relevant organizations in the United Nations system,
with a view to achieving the objectives set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Council
resolution 1989/4;

2. Recognizes that the identification of indicative patterns of consumption
and the development of qualitative indicators of development would be extremely
useful in the evaluation of the progress achieved in the implementation of the
international development strategy and would make a substantial contribution to the
work of a United Nations conference on the environment and development;

3. Invites interested donor countries, the relevant international
organizations and other bodies and institutions wishing to participate in the
research work on patterns of consumption and qualitative indicators of development
to make voluntary contributions for that purpose to the United Nations Research
Institute for Social Development with a view to the holding in good time of the
preparatory meeting and the international conference of high-level experts referred
to in paragraphs 8 and 9 of Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/4;

1&1 Official Records of the Economic and Social CQuncil, 1987, Supplement
No. 6 (E/1987/19), paras. 133-140 and ~., 1989, Supplement No. 3 (E/1989/21),
paras. 128-141.

I • •.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



At44/832/Adid,.l
English
Page 33

4. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to lnvlte tbe Unlted Natlons nesearch
Instit.ute for Social D€voloprnent to subrnit a prelininary progr686 report to tbe
General Assernb1y at its forty-fifth €e66ion on the inplementatlon of the prgsett
resolution and of Economic and Social Council resolutioa L989/4.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

The General Assenbly

RecaLlinq its resolutio\ 43/L7A of 20 December 1988.

Recalling also Econonlc and Social CounciL reaolutlon L989/96 of 26 JuIy 1989,

Tahinq into accoult the ltltlfadah of the Paleatinian people in the occupied
Palestinian territory agalnst the I6raeli occupation, lacludlng lts €conotnic and
social policie6. aDd practic€s,

R€j€ccitrg Israell restrichion6 olr erterDal economic ald soclat a6el6ta[c€ to
th€ Pale€tinian people i! the occupied Pa]estlnlan territory,

A$AIS of th€ incr€aailg leed to provlde econonic ard social asslstance to the
Pale6Cirian people,

Affirning that th€ Paleatinian p€opl€ cannot develop their national €coaony a6'long aa tbe Iaraeli occupation gersists,

1. aal.€s lotG of the report aDteied to the note by the Sacretary-c€neral o!
asslstarce to tbe Paleathian people; lZl

2. Etpressaa it6 appreclation to th€ Stat€s, Unit€d Nat.io!6, bodl€s altl
LDtsrgoveruneDtal ald lon-gov€rrmelrtal orgaDization€ tbat have provLded a€Bi8tarce
to the Pal.estiniatr peopl€ i

3. Regue6ta the internationaf conmutity, the organizatiotrs of th€ United
Nations systen and intergov€rnnental and non-goverrunetrtal organizations to eustain
and i|lcreaBe their assistaDce to the Pale6tiniatr peop].€, in clo6e co-op€ration l'ith
the Palestine LiberatioD Orgarizationi

4. Calls for the treatnetrt on a trarsit basia of Palestiaia! erports and
inports passing through neighbouring port6 and poiltE of erit and entryt

L/ Al 44/ 637 .

Al44/83Z1Add.1
English
Page 33

4. Requests the Secretary-General to invite the United· Nations Research
Institute for Social Development to submit a preliminary progress report to the
General Assembly at its forty-fifth session on the implementation of the present
resolution and of Economic and Social Council resolution· 1989/4.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Assistance to the Palestipian people

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 43/178 of 20 December 1988.

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/96 of 26 July 1989,

Taking into account the intifadah of the Palestinian people in the occupied
Palestinian territory against the Israeli occupation, including its economic and
social policies. and practices,

Rejecting Israeli restrictions on external economic and social assistance to
the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory,

~ of the increasing need to provide economic and social assistance to the
Palestinian people,

Affirming that the Palestinian people cannot develop their national economy as
tong as the Israeli occupation persists,

1. Takes note of the report annexed to the note by the Secretary-General on
assistance to the Palestinian people; 111

2. Expresses its appreciation to the States, United Nations bodies and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations that have provided assistance
to the Palestinian people;

3. Reguests the international community, the organizations of the United
Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to sustain
and increase their assistance to the Palestinian people, in close co-operation with
the Palestine Liberation Organization;

4. ~ for the treatment on a transit basis of Palestinian exports and
imports passing through neighbouring ports and points of exit and entry;

lil A/44/637.

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 812 / Add.. L
11t10 L 1Sn

'nje:a

5. Also calfs for the granting of trade concessions and concrete
preferential measures for Palestinian exports on the basis of PalesLinian
cer.tificates of o rigi n:

6. further caffs for the irnmediate lifting of Israeli reslrictions and
()bstacles hindering the irnplementation of assistance projects by the United Nations
Deve]opment Progranme. ouher United Nations bodies and others providing economic
and social assistance to the Pa]estinian people in the occupied Palest.inian
l-erritory;

7 , ReitelaEqs its calf for the implementation of developnenb projects in the
occupied Pa.lestinian territory, inctuding the projects nentioned in General
Assembly resolution 39/223 of 18 Decenber 1984t

8. Requests the Sec re tary-Gene ra.l to report to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session, through the Econorfiic and Social Council, on the progress made
in the impfenentation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

IrternaLional Decade for NaLural Disaster Reducti.on

The General Assenbfy,

Recalfing its resolutio^ 42/L69 of 11 December 7-987, in which it decided bo
designate the 1990s as a decade in which the international cornrnunity, under the
auspices of the United Nations, would pay speciat attention to fostering
international co-operation in Lhe field of natura.L disaster reduction,

Bearinq in miud the relevart provisions of its resolutions 421169 a'rd 43/ZO2
of 20 December 1988, as well as Economic alrd Social Coulcil resolution 1989/99, in
which the Couucil recommended that. the GeneraL Assembly take action to develop atr
appropriate franevrork for attainirg the objective and goals of the Decade,

Ca4€.ide rf4g that natural disasters have adversely affected Ehe lives of a
qreat- number of people and caused considerable datnage to infrastructure and
property world wide, especially in developing countries,

Bl'l_agnidng the inportance of environmental protection for the prevention and
mj ligation of nalural disasters,

Considering further that the internaeional communiEy as a whole has now
improved its capacity to confront this problem, and thaE fatafism about natural
disasters is no longer justified.

BeqqSltlftsS the necessity for Lhe international comnuni.ty to demonstrate the
strong pofiticaf det.ermination required to mobi.lize and use eristing scientific and
technical knowledge to mitigate natural disasters, bearing in mind in particular
the needs of devel-opinq countries.

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Pnge 34

5. Also calls for the granting of trade concessions and concrete
preferential measures for Palestinian exports on the basis of Palestinian
certificates of origin:

6. Further calls for the immediate lifting of Israeli restrictions and
obstacles hindering the implementation of assistance projects by the United Nations
lJevelopment Programme, other United Nations bodies and others providing economic
alld social assistance to the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian
ter"ritory;

7.

occupied
Assembly

Rei~r~te~ its call for the implementation of development projects
Palestinian territory, including the projects mentioned in General
resolu~ion 39/223 of 18 December 1984;

in the

8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session~ through the Economic and Social Council, on the progress made
in the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

The General Assembly~

Recalling its resolution 42/169 of 11 December 1987~ in which it decided to
designate the 1990s as a decade in which the international community~ under the
auspices of the United Nations, would pay special attention to fostering
international co-operation in the field of natural disaster reduction,

Bearing in mind ~he relevan~ provisions of i~s resolu~ions 42/169 and 43/202
of 20 December 1988~ as well as Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/99, in
which ~he Council recommended ~ha~ ~he General Assembly ~ake ac~ion ~o develop an
appropria~e framework for a~~aining ~he objec~ive and goals of ~he Decade,

Considering that natural disasters have adversely affected the lives of a
great number of people and caused considerable damage to infrastructure and
property world wide~ especially in developing countries,

Recognizing the importance of environmental protection for the prevention and
mitigation of natural disasters,

Considering further that the international community as a whole has now
improved its capacity to confront this problem, and that fatalism about natural
disasters is no longer justified~

Recognizing the necessity for the international community to demonstrate the
strong political determination required to mobilize and use existing scientific and
technical knowledge to mitigate natural disasters~ bearing in mind in particular
the needs of developing countries~

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44l832/Adil.1
Erglish
Page 35

Recognizing further the important responsibility of the Unibed Nations systen
as a whole for promoting internatioual co-operat.ion in order to nitigate natural
disasters, provide assistance and co-ordinate disaster relief. preparedness and
prevention,

Recalling the specific responsibif i tie s and functions in the field of diEaster
prevention and preparedness entrusted to the Office of the United Nations Disaster
Relief Co-ordinator, as set out ir it.s resolution 2816 ()offI) of 14 Decenber 1971,

Beariog in rnind the crucial roLe of professional and other non-gove rnmental
organizations, particularly scientific and technological societies. hunanitarian
groups and invosEment insticulions, whose parcicipation in the inplenentatiott of
specific prograrnnes planDed for the Decade is highly desirable,

Also bearing in nind the need for the United Nations system to pay special
attention to the leasb developed, land-locked and island developing counEries in
that. regard,

finphasiEino Ehat appropriate energency planning for natural disasters and its
integration in national development plans could also be very helpfuf in prevent.ing.
as a consequence, other kinds of disasters, such as ihose of an industrial. or
technological nature,

Takipg note, with appreciation, of the report of the Secretary-General on the
International Decade for Natural Di6a6ter Reduction, !g/

Expressiag its apgreciation for the work done by the International Ad Hoc
Group of Expert.s ou Ehe International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, which
submitted its report to the Sec retary-General in Juue 1989, !9/

Bearitrg in mind the connon posibion on natural disaEters of the Ninth
Coufererce of Heads of State or Goverment of the Movement of Non-Allgned
Countries, held at. Belgrade in Septernber Lgag, 29/

L. Proclaima the fnLernationaf Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction,
beginning on 1 January 1990i

2. Decides to designate the second Wednesday of October a6 an InternaEional
Day for Natural Disaster Reduction, to be observed annually during the Decade by
the interEat,ioual community in a manaer befitting the objective and goals of the
Decade i

L9/ A/44/322-E/t989/114,

l-9,/ Ibid. , anner I .

29/ see A/441551-S/20870, a4ner.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 35

Recognizing further the important responsibility of the United Nations system
as a whole for promoting international co-operation in order to mitigate natural
disasters, provide assistance and co-ordinate disaster relief, preparedness and
prevention,

Recalling the specific responsibilities and functions in the field of disaster
prevention and preparedness entrusted to the Office of the United Nations Disaster
Relief Co-ordinator, as set out in its resolution 2816 (XXVI) of 14 December 1971,

Bearing in mind the crucial role of professional and other non-governmental
organizations, particularly scientific and technological societies, humanitarian
groups and investment institutions, whose participation in the implementation of
specific programmes planned for the Decade is highly desirable,

Also bearing in mind the need for the United Nations system to pay special
attention to the least developed, land-locked and island developing countries in
that regard,

Emphasizing that appropriate emergency planning for natural disasters and its
integration in national development plans could also be very helpful in preventing,
as a consequence, other kinds of disasters, such as those of an industrial or
technological nature,

Taking note, with appreciation, of the report of the Secretary-General on the
International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, ~/

Expressing its appreciation for the work done by the International Ad Hoc
Group of Experts on the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, which
submitted its report to the Secretary-General in June 1989, ~/

Bearing in mind·the common position on natural disasters of the Ninth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Belgrade in September 1989, ZQ/

1. PrQclaims the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction,
beginning on 1 January 1990;

2. Decides to designate the second Wednesday of October as an International
Day for Natural Disaster Reduction, to be observed annually during the Decade by
the international community in a manner befitting the objective and goals of the
Decade;

~/ A/44/322-E/1989/114.

~/ I.!liJ;l., annex I.

1Q/ See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A,/ 44/ 832 / Add,l
Euqlish
Page 36

3. Adopts trhe Internat.ionat Frarnework of Action for the Incernacionaf Decade
[or Natural Disaster Reduction contained in the annex to the present resolutioni

4, Resuest.s lhe Sec retary-Gener aI to submit to the General Assembly at its
for.l-,y-f if th se6sion a progress report on Che irnpJ.ementation of Lhe present
resolut-ion. including the organizational arrangenents made for the Decade. and on
Lhe status of existing internati.onal protocols and conventions for rnutual
assisLance in case of disasters;

5. Also requests- the Sec retary-cene ral Co bring the present resofut.ion to
tl)e at't.ention of a.ll Governrnents, inte rgove rnmentaf organizations, appropriate
non-gove rnmental organizations in consultative status wihh the Economic and Social
Council and competent scientific institutions in the field of disaster nitigation,

6, Decides to incluale in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
an item entitled "International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction".

ANNEK

International Framework of Actio! for the Ipternational
Decade for NaturaJ. Disaster Reduction

A. Obiective and ooals

1. The object.ive of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction is to
reduce through concerted international action, especiaffy in developing counLries,
the loss of life, property damage, and social and economic disrupbion caused by
naturaf disasters, such a6 earthquakes, windstorns. tsunarni,6, f,Loods. landslides,
volcanic eruptions, wildfires. grasshopper and locust infestaeions, drought and
desertification alrd other calamities of Datura]. origin.

2. The goals of the Decade are:

(a) To inprove the capacity of each country to nitigate the effects of
rral-uraf disasters expeditiously and effectively, paying special attention to
assisting developing countries in the assessment of disaster darnage potential and
i.rr l-he establishment of early warning systens and disaster-resistanL structures
when and erhere needed i

(b) To devise appropriate guidelines
scientific and technical knowledqe, takinq
diversity among nations i

and strategies for applying e'risting
into account the cultural and economic

(c) To foster scient.if i.c and engineering endeavours aimed aL closing critical
gaps in knowledge in order to realuce loss of life and property;

(d) To disserninaLe existing and new technical information related to neasures
for t-he assessme4t, prediction and mitigation of iraLural disastersi

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 36

3. Adopts the International Framework of Action for the International Decade
(OJ" Natural Disaster Reduction contained in the annex to the present resolution:

4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session a progress report on the implementation of the present
resolution, including the organizational arrangements made for the Decade, and on
thA status of existing international protocols and conventions for mutual
assistance in case of disasters;

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to
tlle attention of all Goverrunents, intergovernmental organizations, appropriate
non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social
Council and competent scientific institutions in the field of disaster mitigation:

6. ~~ to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
an item entitled "International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction".

ANNEX

International Framework of Action for the Internat~
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

A. Objective and goals

1. The objective of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction is to
reduce through concerted international action, especially in developing countries,
the loss of life, property damage, and social and economic disruption caused by
natural disasters, such as earthquakes, windstorms, tsunamis, floods, landslides,
volcanic eruptions, wildfires, grasshopper and locust infestations, drought and
desertification and other calamities of natural origin.

2. The goals of the Decade are:

(a) To improve the capacity of each country to mitigate the effects of
natural disasters expeditiously and effectively, paying special attention to
assisting developing countries in the assessment of disaster damage potential and
i.1l t.he establishment of early warning systems and disaster-resistant structures
WhP.ll and where needed;

(b) To devise appropriate guidelines and strategies for applying existing
scientific and technical knowledge, taking into account the cultural and economic
diversity among nations;

(c) To foster scientific and engineering endeavours aimed at Closing critical
gaps in knowledge in order to reduce loss of life and property:

(d) To disseminate existing and new technical information related to measures
for the assessment, prediction and mitigation of natural disasters;

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add.L
EngI ish
Page 37

(e) To develop neasures for the assessrnent. prediction, prevention ancl
Initigation of natural clisasters through progranmes of technicat assistance ancl
l"echnofogy transfer' denonstration projects, and education and training, tailorecl
Lo specific disasters ancl locations, and Lo evaluate the effectiveness of tho6e
l)roctr:etnmes.

Policv measures Lo be taken at the nationa_l level

All Governments are called uDon tol

(a) Formulate national disaster-mitigation programmes, as lre,lr a6 econarnic.
land use and insurance policies ror disaster preverrtioni ancl particularly i'
developing countries, to integrate them fully into their national developmenr
Programmes i

(b) Participate during the Decade in concert.ed internationaf action for lhe
reduction of natural disasters and, as approp!iate, establish national cornrnitLees
in co-operation with the relevant scientific and technological communities ancl
other concerned sectors with a view to aLtaining the objective and goals or the
Dec aale i

(c) Encourage their locat administrations to take appropriate steps to
mobilize the necessary support fron the pubfic and private sectors and to
contribute to achi.eving the purposes of the Decadei

(d) Keep the Secre tary-Gene ra1 inforrned of the plans of their countries and
of assistance that can be provided so that the united Nations may becorne an
international cent.re for the exchange of information and the co-ordination of
internationaL efforts concerning activiEies iu support of the objective and goals
of the Decade' thus enabling each state Lo benefit fron the experience of other
countries;

(e) Tale measures, as appropriate, to increase public awareness of damage
risk probabilities and of the significance of preparedness, prevent.ion, relief and
short-term recovery activities with respect to naturaL disasters ard to enhance
(:orrmunity preparedness through education. training and other rneans. taking into
account the specific role of the news mediat

(f) Pay due attention to the impact of natural disasters on heaLth care,
pi\rLicuf ar.fy to activities to nitigate the vulnerability of hospitals and heatth
cerltres. as well as the irnpact on food storage facilities, hunan shel-ter and or-her
social and economic infrastructure t

(S) Improve the early international availability of appropriate energency
supplies through the storage or earnarking of such supplies in disasLer_p.one dreits

4. Scientific and technofogical institutions. financial inst.itutions, inclucling
banks and insurance companies, and industrial enterprises. foundations and other
relatecl non-gove rnmenta] organizations are encouraged co support ancl participate

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 37

(e) To develop measures for the assessment, prediction, prevention and
mitigation of natural disasters through programmes of technical assistance and
technology transfer, demonstration projects, and education and training, tailored
to specific disasters and locations, and to evaluate the effectiveness of those
programmes.

B. Policy measures to be taken at the national level

3. All Governments are called upon to:

(a) Formulate national disaster-mitigation programmes, as well as economic,
land use and insurance policies for disaster prevention: and particularly 11)
developing countries, to integrate them fully into their national development
programmes;

(b) Participate during the Decade in concerted international action for the
reduction of natural disasters and, as appropriate, establish national committees
in co-operation with the relevant scientific and technological communities and
other concerned sectors with a view to attaining the objective and goals of the
Decade;

(c) Encourage their local administrations to take appropriate steps to
mobilize the necessary support from the public and private sectors and to
contribute to achieving the purposes of the Decade;

(d) Keep the Secretary-General informed of the plans of their countries and
of assistance that can be provided so that the United Nations may become an
international centre for the exchange of information and the co-ordination of
international efforts concerning activities in support of the objective and goals
of the Decade, thus enabling each State to benefit from the experience of other
countries:

(e) Take measures, as appropriate, to increase public awareness of damage
risk probabilities and of the significance of preparedness, prevention, relief and
short-term recovery activities with respect to natural disasters and to enhance
community preparedness through education~ training and other means~ taking into
Recount the specific role of the news media:

(f) Pay due attention to the impact of natural disasters on health care,
particularly to activities to mitigate the vulnerability of hospitals and health
centres, as well as the impact on food storage facilities, human shelter and other
sucial and economic infrastructure:

( g)

supplies
Improve the early international availability of appropriate emergency

through the storage or earmarking of such supplies in disaster-prone areas.

4. Scientific and technological institutions~ financial institutions~ including
banks and insurance companies, and industrial enterprises~ foundations and other
related non-governmental organizations are encouraged to support and participate

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a/44l832/Add.1
English
Page 38

fully in the programmes and activities of the Decade prePared and irnplenented by
the internatiolal cotnmunity, inc]uding Governments, international organizationa and
rtou-governmentaL organizatiolrs.

C. Actions to be taken bg Lhe United Nations svstern

5. The organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system are urged to
accord priority, as appropriate, and in a concerled manner, to natural disaster
preparedness. prevention, relief and 6horC-term recovery. inctuding econornic damage
risk assessnent in their operational activitie6. The Sec retary-Gene r al is
requested, in this regard, to ensule thac adequate means are made availabLe to the
Office of the United Nations Di6aster Relief Co-oralinator so thaf it may difigently
discharge its specific role and respons ibi l ities in the field of disaster
miligation and response in confornity $ith iLs mandaEe, as cont.ained in GBneral
Assenbly resolution 2816 ()CavI ) of 14 Decernber 1971.

6. The Sec re t.ary-GeDeraL, in close association with the refevant organizations of
the United Nations system, iD particular through the Departnent of Public
Information of the United Nations Secretariat, as well as national infornation
authorities, ia requested to assist. itr the formulation and itnPfenenEation tluri.ng
the Decade of public informat.ion progratnnes aimed at raising awarenelts of disascer
prevention amoug Ehe getreral public.

7. Tlte United Nations resident co-ordinators and the f ieJ.d representatives of the
united Natious system are requested to uork closely aDd in a co-ordinated manner
rtrith Goverments to achieve the objective and goal.s of the Decade.

8. The regional conrnissions of the United Nations are urged Lo Play an active
rol.e in implernenting the activities of the Decade, considering that natural
disasters ofEeD tralacend national boundaries.

9. The Secretary-Gereral is requested to deaiglate th€ Director -General for
Devel,opnent and Inter[ational Eeonomic Co-operatioa, la accordance with bls mandate
as set out in GeueraL AssembLy resoluliorl 32/L97 of 20 December L977. as the focal
point for overview and co-ordination of the progrannes and activities of the Un1ted
Nations syslem referred t.o a-bove, in cLose co-operatioD r.ith the Co-ordinator of
the United Naeions DisasEer Relief Office and. as appropriaEe, in consult.ation with
hhe Director of the secretariat of the Decade mentioned in paragraph L4 of the
present annex.

10. The Secret.ary-General i6 requeste,al to report biennially to the General.
Assembly, through the Ecoromic ard Social coulcit, on the activities of the Decade'

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 38

fully in the programmes and activities of the Decade prepared and implemented by
the international community, including Governments, international organizations and
nOll-governmental organizations.

C. Actions to be taken by the United Nations system

5. The organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system are urged to
accord priority, as appropriate, and in a concerted manner, to natural disaster
preparedness, prevention, relief and short-term recovery, including economic damage
risk assessment in their operational activities. The Secretary-General is
requested, in this regard, to ensure that adequate means are made available to the
Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator so that it may diligently
discharge its specific role and responsibilities in the field of disaster
mitigation and response in conformity with its mandate, as contained in General
Assembly resolution 2816 (XXVI) of 14 December 1971.

6. The Secretary-General, in close association with the relevant organizations of
the United Nations system, in particular through the Department of Public
Information of the United Nations Secretariat, as well as national information
authorities, is requested to assist in the formulation and implementation during
the Decade of public information programmes aimed at raising awareness of disaster
prevention among the general public.

7. The United Nations resident co-ordinators and the field representatives of the
United Nations system are requested to work closely and in a co-ordinated manner
with Governments to achieve the objective and goals of the Decade.

8. The regional commissions of the United Nations are urged to play an active
role in implementing the activities of the Decade, considering that natural
disasters often transcend national boundaries.

9. The Secretary-General is requested to designate the Director-General for
Development and International Economic Co-operation, in accordance with his mandate
as set out in General Assembly resolution 32/197 of 20 December 1977, as the focal
point for overview and co-ordination of the programmes and activities of the United
Nations system referred to above, in close co-operation with the Co-ordinator of
the United Nations Disaster Relief o.ffice and, as appropriate, in consultation with
the Director of the secretariat of the Decade mentioned in paragraph 14 of the
present annex.

10. The Secretary-General is requested to report biennially to the General
Assembly, through the Economic and Social Council, on the activities of the Decade.

I •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44l832/Add.1
English
Page 39

Organizational arrangements durinq the Decade

1. Special hiqh-level counc i I

rr' The sec retary-cene r a.r is requested to estabrish, with due regard to equitabre
qeclqraphical representabion. a special high-level council, consisting of a timited
rrurnber of inte rnati ona]ly prominent persons, in order to provide him with overall
ar'lvice with respect to the Decade. to take appropriat.e action to promote pul)ric
awareness and to mobitize the necessary support from the public and private sectors

2. Scientific and technical cornmit.tee on the Internat.ionaL
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

12. The secre tary-Gene r af is requested to establish. \,ri th due regard to equitabLe
geographical representation and covering the diversity of disaster_nitigation
issues. a scientific and t.echnical committee on the rnternaLionaf Decade for
Natural Disaster Reduction, consisting of 20 to 25 scientific and technica.l experts
selected in consultation *ith their Governments on the basis or the.ir personar.
capacities and gualifications and including expe!ts from the oigans, organizaLions
and bodies of the United Nations system.

13. The role of the committee is to develop overafl programmes to be taken into
account in bil'ateraf and mu1ti]aleral co-operat.ion for the Decade, paying attention
to priorities and gaps in technical knowledge idenlified at the national levet, in
particular by nationaL connnitteesi to assess and evaluate the activities carried
out in the course of the Decadet and to rnake reconmendations on the overatl
progranmes in an annual report to the Sec retary_Gene r aL .

3. Sec retar i at

14' Th€ sec retary-Gene ral. is requested to establi6h a small secret.ariat. to be
funded by extrabudgetary resources, as folfows:

(a) The secretariar shalf be estabrished at the united Nation' office at(leneva. in close association with the Office of the UDited Nations Disaster Re]ief
Co-ordinator, 

'ith its members ilrawn. as appropriate, from the iDternationafcornmunity of disaster reduction experts and other relevant experts. inler alia,
secon(led from competent United Nations organizations, GoverruneDts and
niJrr-gove rnrnent.al o rgani z ations;

(b) The secret.ariat shafr be responsible for the day-to-day co-orcrination of
Decade activities and shall provide substantive and secretarial supporL t.o ttre
special high-level council and the cornmittee, as welr as for other relatecl
aciivit.ies.

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 39

D. Organizational arrangements during the Decade

1. Special high-level council

11. The Secretary-General is requested to establish, with due regard to equitable
geographical representation, a special high-level council, consisting of a limited
number of internationally prominent persons, in order to provide him with overall
ftflv.t.ce with respect to the Decade, to take appropriate action to promote public
awareness and to mobilize the necessary support from the pUblic and private sectors.

2. Scientific and technical committee on the InternaLional
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

12. The Secretary-General is requested to establish, with due regard to equitable
geographical representation and covering the diversity of disaster-mitigation
issues, a scientific and technical committee on the International Decade for
Natural Disaster Reduction, consisting of 20 to 25 scientific and technical experts
selected in consultation with their Governments on the basis of their personal
capacities and qualifications and including experts from the organs, organizations
and bodies of the United Nations system.

13. The role of the committee is to develop overall programmes to be taken into
account in bilateral and multilateral co-operation for the Decade, paying attention
to priorities and gaps in technical knOWledge identified at the national level, in
particular by national committees: to assess and evaluate the activities carried
out in the course of the Decade; and to make recommendations on the overall
programmes in an annual report to the Secretary-General.

3. Secretariat

14. The Secretary~Genera1 is requested to establish a small secretariat, to be
funded by extrabudgetary resources, as follows:

(a) The secretariat shall be established at the United Nations Office at
{~~neva, in close association with the Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief
Co-orainator, with its members drawn, as appropriate, from the international
community of disaster reduction experts and other relevant experts, inter alia,
seconded from competent United Nations organizations, Governments and
nOrl-governmental organizations:

(b) The secretariat shall be responsible for the day-to-day co-ordination of
Decade activities and shall provide substantive and secretarial support to the
special high-level council and the committee, as well as for other related
activities.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ A32 / Add,t
EngIl6h
Page 40

E. Finatrcial arranqemerts

15. It is reconrnr€ndetl that extrabudget.ary resources be grovided for implenentaLio!
of the Decade and, therefore. that voluntary cortrlbutlonE from Government6,
interaational organizations aDd other agurc€a. includiag the private sector. be
strongfy elcouraged, To thl6 end. a trusE fuld shall be eatabl.ished by the
Seqretary-General, who will be entrusted rith its a&nltli stration.

F. Reviefl

16. Th€ Economic and Soqial Council r.ilf carry oub a mial-tertn review of the
implenantatioD of the International Frarnework of Action for the Internaeional
Decade for Natural Disaster ReducEioD during it6 aecond regular seseion of 1994 arrd
report it6 findiDgs to the Geleral Assenbly.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Second Induetrial Devetogtent Decade f,or Africa ,

Tlre G€n€ral Assenbly,

Recallhg lts r€solution 35/66 B of 5 December 1980 on the IDdustrial
Develolrmgnt Decad€ for Africa,

RecaLliaq Ecolomic and Social Couucil reaolutiou L987/7O of I July 1987. in
which the Courcil r€comlonded that, after appropriate evaluatiou of the Industria].
Devetolxneat Decade for Africa, the proclanaEion of a second decade should b€
considered in ord€r to erlredite the process of Africa's iodustrial izatlon,

Recal.liag also resofutio! AI|c/Res,180 (:EfV ) of the A66embly of Heads of SEate
and Goverurn€lt of the Organizatio! of African UnLi-y 2l/ otr Ch6 proclamation of a
socond irdustrial developrelE decade for Africa ald on an African industriali aation
tlay,

Recalling Economic and Sociat Council resolutiotr 1989/115 of 28 July L989 on
the proclamation of a second industrial developrn€nt decade for Africa,

trfelcomlng Industrial Developm€nt Board decision IDB.5/Dec.7 of 6 ,July LgAg 22/
on the Irduetrial D€veLoprnert Decade for Africa, in wblch the Board reconmeud€d
that tshe Gereral Confereace of the United Nations Industrial DeveloFnelt

. OrgaDisatlor should requests the Ge!€ral Assetnbly tso proclaim a second industrial
developn€nq d€cade for Africa.

2l/ See A/44/603, anner III.

22/ ts/1989/L.32. anr.et.

A/44/8321Add. 1
English
Page 40

E. Financial arrangements

15. It is recommended that extrabudgetary resources be provided for implementation
of the Decade and, therefore, that voluntary contributions from Governments,
international organizations and other sources, including the private sector, be
strongly encouraged. To this end, a trust fund shall be established by the
Secretary-General, who will be entrusted with its administration.

F. Review

16. The Economic and Social Council will carry out a mid-term review of the
implementation of the International Framework of Action for the International
Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction during its second regular session of 1994- and
report its findings to the General Assembly.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Second Industrial Deyelopment Decade for Ate ica ;,

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35/66 B of 5 December 1980 on the Industrial
Development Decade for Africa,

Recalling Economic· and Social Council resolution 1987/70 of 8 July 1987, in
which the Council recommended that, after appropriate evaluation of the Industrial
Development Decade for Africa, the proclamation of a second decade should be
considered in order to expedite the process of Africa's industrialization,

Recalling also resolution AHG/Res,180 (XXV) of the Assembly of Heads of State
and Government of the Organization of African Unity ~I on the proclamation of a
second industrial development decade for Africa and on an African industrialization
day,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/115 of 28 July 1989 on
the proclamation of a second industrial development decade for Africa,

WelComing Industrial Development Board decision IDB.5/Dec.7 of 6 July 1989 221
on the Industrial Development Decade for Africa, in which the Board recommended
that the General· Conference of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization should request the General Assembly to proclaim a second industrial
developmen~ decade for Africa,

211 See A/44/603, annex Ill.

Zll E/1989/L.32, annex.

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



2. Further procfaims AO Novernber as Africa Industrialization Day, for the
Purpose of mobilizing the connitment of the international convnunitv to the
indus tri aL iz ation of Africa;

3. Endorses the proposals of the Secle tary_General, as contained in his
rePort, on the Participation of the United Nations, through the Economic Commission
for Africa, in the preparation of the programne for the second industrial
developnent decade for Africa,

4. Requests the secretary-cenerar of the ulited Nations, in consulEation
with the Di rector-Gene ral of Ehe uniteil Nations rndustrial Dever.opmeDt
Organization, the Secretary-ceneral of the Organization of Africa; Unlty, the
refevarxt aubregional, and regional economic Aroupings in Africa and the UnitedNatlons bodies conc.rtred, to undertake the necessary preparations for the secondrndustrial Devefopnent Decade for Africa and to submit, through the Econonic and
SociaL Councif, a report on those preparations to the ceneral Assenbly at its
forty-fifth 6essiotr.

A/44/ A32/ Add.r
Engtish
Page 41

Welconing furtheE resolution GC.3/10 on the second industrial developnent
decade for Africa, adopted by the Genera.L Confelence of the United Nations
Industrial Developnent Organization on ?3 Novenbe r Iggg, Zj/

Having considered the report of the Sec retary-General on the preparation for
the second indust.riaL development decade for Africa (1991_ZOOO!, 24/ conEaining
proposals for the preparation of the programne for the second decade,

l. Proclaim6 the period 1991-2000 the Second Industrial Development Decade
for Africa;

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

WorLd Decad€ for CuLtural Dev€Lopm€nt

The General AssembLv,

Recalliag its resofution 4l/!87 of 10 December 1986, in uhich it procLained
the period 1988-1997 the world Decade for cuftural Developneut, to be observed
under the auspices of the united NatioDs and the united Nations Educationat,
Scientific and Cultural Organizatiotr.

considering Economic aud social council resolution Lgag/Loi of 27 July l-9g9.

23/ See cC.3/INf.3.

24/ a/44/8I2,

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 41

Welcoming further resolution GC.3/10 on the second industrial development
decade for Africa, adopted by the General Conference of the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization on 23 November 1989, 111

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the preparation for
the second industrial development decade for Africa (1991-2000), 241 containing
proposals for the preparation of the programme for the second decade,

1. Proclaims the period 1991-2000 the Second Industrial Development Decade
for Africa:

2. Further proclaims 20 November as Africa Industrialization Day, for the
purpose of mobilizing the commitment of the international community to the
industrialization of Africa;

3. Endorses the proposals of the Secretary-General, as contained in his
report, on the participation of the United Nations, through the Economic Commission
for Africa, in the preparation of the programme for the second industrial
development decade for Africa;

4. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in consultation
with the Director-General of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization, the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity, the
relevant subregional and regional economic groupings in Africa and the United
Nations bodies concerned, to undertake the necessary preparations for the Second
Industrial Development Decade for Africa and to submit, through the Economic and
Social Council, a report on those preparations to the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

World Decade for Cultural Development

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 41/187 of 10 December 1986, in which it proclaimed
the period 1988-1997 the World Decade for Cultural Development, to be observed
under the auspices of the United Nations and the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization,

Considering Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/107 of 27 July 1989,

£11 See GC.3/INF.3.

241 A/44/8l2.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a/44/832/Add,,L
Engfish
Page 42

&e-ssSAi-Elr0s the inPortance of cultural development based on the affirmation
and enrichment of the cultural identities of atf counlries and its close
relationship to overalf deve.lopment.

Welconinq the Progress made by Member States and by non-gove rtunenla I
organizations to develop activities 1'ithill the framevrork of the Decade.

1. Takes nole of the rePort of the Sec re t ary-Gene ral of the United Nations
aDcl of the Director-Genera.l of Che United Nations Educational' Scientific and
Cultural organization on the Progress of the World Decade for Cultural DeveloPment
(1q88-19q7) during the period 1988-1989i 25/

2. Invites Member States that have not yet done so to establish DaLionaL
cornmittees for Lhe Decade and otherwise to strengthen their efforts to impfement
the Pfan of Action for the Decadei

3. Expresses appreciation to those countries that have Proviclecl vofuntary
contributions in Lhe form of consultant services to the secreLariat of Lhe Decade
aud encourages other countries, incernational organizations and other organizations
to nake vol.untary contributions Eo suPPort the inPlenentation of the Decade;

4. InviEes the organizatious and Progranmes of the United Nations system to
continue their efforts to develop activiLies within the franework of Lhe Decade' in
accordance wibh directives of the Administlative committee on co-ordinatio'j, !p/

5. Reguests the Secretary-Gene raf in co-operatiou with the Di recto r -General
of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to
strengthen co-ordination of the activities undertaken by the organizations and
Prograrunes of the United NaEions system in supPort of the Decade;

6. Ernphasizes the importance of taking the cultural dinension of develoPnent
into account in the elaboration of the internationa.L develoPnent strategy for the
fourth UDited Natiols alevelopnent decade and in the working documents for the
special session of the General Assernbly devoted to internationaL econonic
co-oPeraE.aon;

7 . Endorses Ehe reconunendati ons of the Nairobi Forward-fooking Strategies
for t-)re AdvaDcement of wornen. 2f/ whi'ch aim at promoting women's participaLion in
the Plan of Act.ion for the Decade. in particuLar those relating to a better
i t-egration and promotion of womeD in the objectives of the Decade;

25/ A/44/284-E/1989 /rO9.

26/ See ACC/1988/2/Add.3.

2a/ Report of the World Conference to Reviag and Appraise the Achievenenbs of
the United Nations Decade for wonen: Equalitv. DeveLopment and Peace' Nairobi.
15:26 rfulg lg!5 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.85'Iv'10). chaP' L
sect. A.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 42

Recognizing the importance of cUltural development based on the affirmation
and enrichment of the cultural identities of all countries and its close
relationship to overall development,

Welcoming the progress made by Member States and by non-goverI~ental
organizations to develop activities within the framework of the Decade,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and of the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization on the progress of the World Decade for Cultural Development
(1988-1997) during the period 1988-1989; ~51

2. Invites Member States that have not yet done so to establish national
committees for the Decade and otherwise to strengthen their efforts to implement
the Plan of Action for the Decade;

3. Expresses appreciation to those countries that have provided voluntary
contributions in the form of consultant services to the secretariat of the Decade
and encourages other countries, inter"national organizations and other organizations
to make voluntary contributions to support the implementation of the Decade:

4.. Inyites the organizations and programmes of the United Nations system to
continue their efforts to develop activities within the framework of the Decade, in
accordance with directives of the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination; 261

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the Director-General
of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to
strengthen co-ordination of the activities undertaken by the organizations and
programmes of the United Nations system in support of the Decade;

6. Emphasizes the importance of taking the cultural dimension of development
into account in the elaboration of the international development strategy for the
fourth United Nations development decade and in the working documents for the
special session of the General Assembly devoted to international economic
co-operation; .

7. Endorses the recommendations of the Nairobi Forward-looking Strategies
for the Advancement of Women, ill which aim at promoting women's participation in
the Plan of Action for the Decade, in particular those relating to a better
integration and promotion of women in the objectives of the Decade;

251 A/44/284-E/1989/109.

26/ See ACC/1988/2/Add.3.

221 Report of the World Conference to Review and Appraise the Achievements of
the United Nations Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace. Nairobi,
1~~26 July 1985 (United Nations pUblication, Sales No. E.85.IV.IO), chap. I,
sect. A.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832 / Arld. I
Eno.Li6h
PAda 4?

8. Reguests the Secretary-Gene ral, r,rith the assistance of the
Di rec tor -General of tbe united Nations Educational.. scientific and cultura]
organization. to obtain the views of covernments, appropriate organs and
organizations of the united Nations system and relevant inte rgovernmental and
non-gover neutal organizations olr the objectives and scope of the gLobaL review for
the purpose of evaluation, as reconmended in paragraph 92 of the report of the
sec re tary-cener af of bhe united Nations and the Direct.or-ceneral of the united
Nations Educational, scientific and cultural organization on the Decade, 21l and to
submit those vielrs to the General Assenbly at its forty-fifth session, through the
Econornic and Social Council;

9. Expresses support for the recornmendation in paragraph 92 of the report of
lhe sec retary-Gene rar for the conduct of an evaLuation at the mid-point of the
Decade in 1993, uuder the auspices of the united Nations and the uniled Nations
EducationaL, Scientific aud Culturaf Organization, in order to evaluate the
inplenentation of the Plan of Action for the Decadet

10. Reouests the secret ary-Gene ra1 and the Di rector -G€ne rar of the united
Nations EducatioDal, scient.ific and cultural organization to submit a report on the
progress of, the Decade for the period 1990-1991 to the General Assembly at its
forty-sixEh session,

48. The second conmLttee also reconmends co the General Assembly the adoption of
the follo$ing draft decisLons 3

DRAFT DECISION I

Documeuts relating to the regort of the
Econonic atrd Social Council

The General AssenbLy takes note of th€ folloiring documents !

(a) Report of ehe Sec retary-General on human resourceE developnen! and the
activities of the United Nations system iu Chat field, 2gl

(b) Progress report of the Secretary-General oD preparatory arrangements for
the second transport and conmunications decade in Africa, Iq1L_2OOO, Zg/

23./ A/44/229-E/L989/60.

29/ A/44/255-E/L989/62.

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 43

8. Reguests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of the
Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, to obtain the views of Governments, appropriate organs and
organizations of the United Nations system and relevant intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations on the objectives and scope of the global review [or
the purpose of evaluation, as recommended in paragraph 92 of the report of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Director-General of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on the Decade, ~51 and to
submit those views to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session, through the
Economic and Social Council;

9. Expresses support for the recommendation in paragraph 92 of the report of
the Secretary-General for the conduct of an evaluation at the mid-point of the
Decade in 1993, under the auspices of the United Nations and the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, in order to evaluate the
implementation of the Plan of Action for the Decade;

10. Requests the Secretary-General and the Director-General of the United
Nations Educational l Scientific and Cultural Organization to submit a report on the
progress of the Decade for the period 1990-1991 to the General Assembly at its
forty-sixth session.

.. .. ..
48. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Documents relating to the report of the
Economic and Social CQuncil

The General Assembly takes note of the following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on human resources development and the
activities of the United Nations system in. that field; 281

(b) Progress report of the Secretary-General on preparatory arrangements for
the second transport and communications decade in Africa, 1991-2000; ~/

~I A/44/229-E/1989/60.

291 A/44/255-E/1989/62.

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 812/ Add.t
English
Page 44

(c) NoLe by the Sec retary-Gene r al", transmitting the report of the
Sec re t ary-Gene raf of the Worfd Tourism Organization on progress made in
inplernenting the Manila Declaration and the Acapulco Docu$ent on World Tourisrn; 3O/

(d) Report of the Sec retary-Gene r al on Israeti trade pracLices in the
occupied Palestinian territories i 3l/

(e) NoEe by the Sec retary-Gene r aI on Israeli financial and trade practices in
the occupied Syrian Arab Golan. ffl

DRAFT DECISION II

Biennial progranme of worl for Lhe Second Conmittee for 199Q--1 91

The Genera.l Assembly. in accordance wiLh paragraph 5 of it-s resolution 39/217
of 18 Decenber 1984. approves the bienniaf progranne of work for the Second
Committee for 1990-1991, anneBed hereto.

ANNEX

Draft biennial progralnme of work for lhe Second Comrnittee
for 1990-1991 33/

1990

Iten 1. Repolt of, the Econonic and Social Council 34l

(a) Internatioual Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

DocureptaLion Progres6 report of the Sec retary-Gene ral on the
inplenentation of Generaf Assembly resoLution 44/236 o\
the Internationaf Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction
(General Assernbly resolution 44/236 of 22 December 1989)

LO-/ A/ 44/ Z'l 3-E/ L989 / 77 .

3tr/ A/ 44/ 2'17 -E/ 1989 / 82 .

12/ A/ 44/ 338-E/ L9 89/r18.

a,- 33/ The second committee wi1l. in accordance wich estabtished Practice and 
in

pursuance of General Asse.nbly decision 38/429, hold a general debate each year at
the beginniig of its work.

-33/ The -Iist of quest.ions and documentation under this item is only
inalicative of requests for reports fron the General Assemtrly. The fist will be
finafized only after the Economic and Social Council compfetes its vork in 1990.

1\/44/83 21l\dd.l
English
Page 44

(c) Note by the Secretary-General, transmitting the report of the
Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organization on progress made in
implementing the Manila Declaration and the Acapulco Document on World Tourism: 301

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli trade practices in the
occupied Palestinian territories; 31/

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on Israeli financial and trade practices in
the occupied Syrian I\rab Golan. ~/

DRI\FT DECISION 11

Biennial programme of work for the Second Committee for 19~Q_~~~l

The General Assembly, in accordance with paragraph 5 of its resolution 39/217
of 18 December 1984. approves the biennial programme of work for the Second
Committee for 1990-1991. annexed hereto.

ANNEX

Draft biennial programme of work for the Second Committee
for 1990 1991 12/

Item 1. Report of the Economic and Social Council 21/

(a) International pecade for Natural Disaster Reduction

Documentation Progress report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of General I\ssembly resolution 44/236 on
the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction
(General I\ssembly resolution 44/236 of 22 December 1989)

lQ./ 1\/44/273-E/1989/77.

ll/ 1\/44/277-E/1989/82.

~/ 1\/44/338-E/1989/118.

~33/ The Second Committee will, in accordance with established practice and in
pursuance of General Assembly decision 38/429, hold a general debate each year at
the beginni~g of its work.

)4/ The list of questions and documentation under this item is only
indicative of requests for reports from the General Assembly. The list will be
finalized only after the Economic and Social Council completes its work in 1990.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44 / 832 / Add,L
English
Page 45

(b) second Transport ard Cornnunications Decade in Africa

Documeptation RePort of the Sec retary-Ge$eral on PreParaEory
arrangements for the Second TransPort and Cornmunications
Decade in Africa (General Asaembly resolution 43/!79 of
20 December 1988 ) f5/

(c) second Industrial Development Decade for Africa

Do-cunentation Report of the Secretary-General on th€ PreParations for
the Second Industriaf DeveLoPnent Decade for Africa
(General Assernbly resoluEion 44/237 of
22 December 1989 ) 35/

(d) World Decade for Cultural Development.

Doctimentation RePort of the Sec retary-General on views on the objectives
and scoPe of the global review for the conduct of an
evaluation at the nid-Point of the worfd Decade for
CuLtural Devel'oPment (General Assembly resolution 441238
of 22 Decenber 1989) 35/

(e) Interlatiolal Drinkino vfater Supglv and Sanitation Decade

Docum€ntation RePort of the Sec retary-Genera.l o! the Progress achieved
tluring the International Drinking vfater SuPPly and
Sanitation D€cade (General Assernbly re6olutsion 4o/L7L oE
17 December 1985 )

(f) National entrepreneurship in economic develoDment

i Documentatio! Report of the Secr€tary-General on national
etrtraPreneurshiP in econonic develoPnent (ncoaornic and
sociaL council resolution fg88/74 of 29 JiIy 1988) l5l

(S) Pernanent sovereigntv over national resources in tshe occuoied PalesEinian
and other Arab ter r itories

Documentation Report of the Secre tary-General on Israeli Iand and water
policies and Practices in the occuPied Palestinian
territory and other occupied Arab territories (Econonic
and Social Council resolution 1989/86 of 26 July 1989) 35/

35/ Report submitted to the General Assembly, tshrough the Economic and Social
Council.

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 45

(b) Second Transport and Communications Decade in Africa

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on preparatory
arrangements for the Second Transport and Communications
Decade in Africa (General Assembly resolution 43/179 of
20 December 1988) 12/

(c) Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa

DOcumentation Report of the Secretary-General on the preparations for
the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa
(General Assembly resolution 44/237 of
22 December 1989) 12/

(d) World Decade for Cultural Deyelopment

DQcumentation Report of the Secretary-General on views on the objectives
and scope of the global review for the conduct of an
evaluation at the mid-point of the World Decade for
Cultural Development (General Assembly resolution 44/238
of 22 December 1989) ~/

(e) International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the progress achieved
during the International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade (General Assembly resolution 40/171 of
17 December 1985)

(f) National entrepreneurship in economic development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on national
entrepreneurship in economic development (Economic and
Social Council resolution 1988/74 of 29 July 1988) 12/

(9) Permanent sovereignty oyer national resources in the occypied Palestinian
and other Arab territories

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli land and water
pOlicies and practices in the occupied Palestinian
territory and other occupied Arab territories (Economic
and Social Council resolution 1989/86 of 26 July 1989) 12/

35/ Report submitted to the General Assembly. through the Economic and Social
Council.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add.L
English
Page 46

Iten 2

(h) Assistance to the palestinian people

(i)

Docuneutation Report. of the SecreEary-General on assist.ance to the
Palestinian people (Economic and Social Council resolut.ion
1989/96 of 26 July 1989 and cenera.l Assembfy resolution
44/235 of 22 December t9B9) ag/

Prevention and control of acgl;rired immupodeficiencv sypdrome (AIDS)

Documentation Note by the Secretary-ceneral transmitEing the report. of
ehe Di recto r-Gene ral of the World gealth Organization on
the inp.lenentation of Geoeral Assenbly resofution 44l233
on the prevention and control of acquired immunode fic iency
syndrome (AIDS) (General Assernbly resolution 44/233 of
ZZ December 1999 ) f5/

United Nations PopuLation Award

Documentation Note by the Sec re tary-Gene ral transmitting the report of
the Eaecutive Director of the United Nations population
Fund oD the United Nations PopuLation Award and Trust Fund
(Economic and Social Council decision L982/lI2 of.
26 April 1992 )

(j)

(k) Rest.ructuring of ttre economic and social sectors of the Uniled Nations
avs Lem

Documentation Draft resolution entitled ,'Inplementation of section II of
the annex to General Aasembly resolution 321197 on the
restructuriag of the economic and social sectors of the
United Nations system,, (ceneral Assernbly decision 43/433
of 20 December 19BB )

Development and internaEiopaL econonic co-operatio!

Docrunentation Report of the Sec retary-Gene raL on human resources
devefopnent (General Assembly resoluEion 44/Z].3 oE
ZZ December 1989 )

Draft resoLut.ion entitLed,,IDteruat,ioaal conference on
noney and fiDance for developnen!', (General Assenbly' decision 441448 of ZZ Decenber 1989)

Note by the Secret.iry-cene ral. transmitting the report of
the United Natio4s Research Institute for Social
D€velopneut on the inplenentation of General Assenbly
resoJ.ution 44/234 on patterns of consumption and
qualitative indicators of development (ceneral Assetnbly
resoLution 44/234 of 22 December 1989)

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 46

(h) Assistance to the Palestinian people

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the
Palestinian people (Economic and Social Council resolution
1989/96 of 26 July 1989 and General Assembly resolution
44/235 of 22 December 1989) 12/

(i) Prevention and control of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the Director-General of the World Health Organization on
the implementation of General Assembly resolution 44/233
on the prevention and control of acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (AIDS) (General Assembly resolution 44/233 of
22 December 1989) 12/

(j) United Nations Population Award

DQcumentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the Executive Director of the United Nations Population
Fund on the United Nations Population Award and Trust Fund
(Economic and Social Council decision 1982/112 of
26 April 1982)

(k) Restructuring of the economic and social seqtors of the United Nations
system

DQcumentation Draft resolution entitled "Implementation of section 11 of
the annex to General Assembly resolution 32/197 on the
restructuring of the economic and social sectors of the
United Nations system" (General Assembly decision 43/433
of 20 December 1988)

Item 2. Development and international economic co-operation

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on human resources
development (General Assembly resolution 44/213 of
22 December 1989)

Draft resolution entitled "International conference on
money and finance for development" (General Assembly
decision 44/448 of 22 December 1989)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the United Nations Research Institute for Social
Development on the implementation of General Assembly
resolution 44/234 on patterns of consumption and
qualitative indicators of development (General Assembly
resolution 44/234 of 22 December 1989)

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44l832/Adat.1
Engl ish
Page 47

Report of the Secretary-General on the irnpLenentation of
General Assembly resolution 44/232 on trends in the
transfer of resources to and from the developing countriee
and their inpact on the economic growth and sust.ained
development of those countries (General Assembly
resolution 44/232 of 22 Decenber lg89)

Report of the coverning Council of the United Nations
Envirorunent Progranme on its special session (General
Assembly resolut.ion 44/229 of 22 December 1989) 35/

Report of the Secretary-Gene ral on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/225 on large-scaLe petagic
driftnet fishing and its inpact on the living rnarine
resources of the worLd's oceanG and 6eas (General Assembly
resolution 44/225 of 22 December L989)

Relevant seclion of the report of the Econonic and Social
Council on the findings and conclusions of ths regional
conmissions on the traffic of toxic and dangerous products
and $astes (General Assembly resol.ution 44/226 of
22 Decenber 1999, part I)

(a) Intertrational devel.opment strategy for the fourth Utrlted Nations
developmeut decade ( 1991-2000 )

Doctaentation Report of the AfL_[iqC Connittee of the Whole (Gen€ral
Aseernbly resoLution 43/182 of 20 December 1988)

(b) Trade and develofinent

Documeneation Report of Ehe Trade and Devetopmetrt Board (ceneraL
Assetnbly resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 Decernber 1964) i9/

Report of the Second United Nations Conference to Reviex
AIl Aspects of the Set of MuttiLaterally Agreed Equitable
Principtes and Rules for the Coutrol of Restrictive
Business Practices (General Assembly resolution 4L/167 of
5 December 1986 )

Report of the Secretary-General on the impf 6ment.at.ion of
GeneraL Assernbly resolution 43/l-gg on specific measures in
favour of island developing countries (Generaf Assembly
resolutioD 43/a89 ot 20 Decenber 1988)

Note by the Secretary-Genelal transnitting the report of
the Secretary-Gene ral of the Unitetl Nations Conference on
Trade and Developrnent on the lnternational code of conduct
o! the transfer of teehnology (General Assenbly resolueion
44/2L6 of 22 Decenber 1989)

A/44/832/Add.1
English
Page 47

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/232 on trends in the
transfer of resources to and from the developing countries
and their impact on the economic growth and sustained
development of those countries (General Assembly
resolution 44/232 of 22 December 1989)

Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme on its special session (General
Assembly resolution 44/229 of 22 December 1989) 3~/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/225 on large-scale pelagic
driftnet fishing and its impact on the living marine
resources of the world's oceans and seas (General Assembly
resolution 44/225 of 22 December 1989)

Relevant section of the report of the Economic and Social
Council on the findings and conclusions of the regional
commissions on the traffic of toxic and dangerous products
and wastes (General Assembly resolution 44/226 of
22 December 1989, part I)

(a) International development strategy for the fourth United Nations
development decade /1991-2000)

Documentation Report of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole (General
Assembly resolution 43/182 of 20 December 1988)

(b) Trade and development

Documentation Report of the Trade and Development Board (General
Assembly resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964) ~/

Report of the Second United Nations Conference to Review
All Aspects of the Set of Multilaterally Agreed Equitable
Principles and Rules for the Control of Restrictive
Business Practices (General Assembly resolution 41/167 of
5 December 1986)

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 43/189 on specific measures in
favour of island developing countries (General Assembly
resolution 43/189 of 20 December 1988)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development on the international code of conduct
on the transfer of technology (General Assembly resolution
44/216 of 22 December 1989)

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ Add,.l
English
Page 48

Report of the sec retary-General on the inplementation of
Geueral Assenbly resolution 44/217 on trade embargo
against Nicaragua (General Assenbly resolution 44/2f7 of
22 Decenber 1989 )

Note by the Sec retary-General transmittinq the rePort of
the Secretary-Gene ral of the United NaEions Conference on
Trade and Dev€Lopnent on world conmodiEy trends and
prospects (General Assenbly resolution 44/218 of
22 December 1989 )

(c) Review and appraisaL of the inplementation of the Substantiaf Netq
Progranme of Action for the 1980s for the Least Developed Countries

Docunentation Report of, the Second United Nations Conference on the
Least Developed Countries (General Assembly resolutiona
4O/2O5 of 17 December 1985. 42,/L77 of ll December L987 and
44/2ZO of 22 Decenber 1989)

( tt) Food problems

Documentation Report of th€ World Food Council 35/

Report of the Secretary-General on trelds in the
iDternatioDaL mark€t for aqricultural and troPical
Products and the liberalization of iDternationa.l
agricul.tural trade (EcoDomic ald Soclal Council resolucion
L989/88 of 26 July 1989)

(e) Nelr and repeflable source€ of energy

Documentatiol R€port of the Conmitt€e on the Developnent a[d Utilizatiotr
of Nefl and Renewable sources of Energy (General Assembly
reaolution 37/25O of 21 December I98?) 35/

(f) Development of the energy resources of developinq countries

Documentatio! Report of the Sec retary-Generai. on the devefoPment of the
energy resources of developilg countries (GeneraL AssemblY
resolution 43/193 of 20 December f988) 35/

Iten 3. United Nations Conference on EnviroDment and DeveLoDrnent

Docwnentation Report of the Chairrnan of tbe Preparatory Conrniteee for
the United Nations cotrfereoce on Envirorunent and
Developnent. 1992, on the Progress of the work of the
Connittee (General Assenbly resolution 44/2zB of
22 Decenber 1989 )

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 48

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/217 on trade embargo
against Nicaragua (General Assembly resolution 44/217 of
22 December 1989)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development on world commodity trends and
prospects (General Assembly resolution 44/218 of
22 December 1989)

(c) Reyiew and appraisal of the implementation of the Substantial New
Programme of Action for the 1980s for the Least Developed Countries

Documentation Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the
Least Developed Countries (General Assembly resolutions
40/205 of 17 December 1985, 42/177 of 11 December 1987 and
44/220 of 22 December 1989)

(d) Food problems

Documentation Report of the World Food Council ~/

Report of the Secretary-General on trends in the
international market for agricultural and tropical
products and the liberalization of international
agricultural trade (Economic and Social Council resolution
1989/88 of 26 July 1989)

(e) New and renewable sources of energy

Documentation Report of the Committee on the Development and Utilization
of New and Renewable Sources of Energy (General Assembly
resolution 37/250 of 21 December 1982) ~/

(f) Development of the energy resources of developing countries

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the development of the
energy resources of developing countries (General Assembly
resolution 43/193 of 20 December 1988) ~/

Item 3. United Nations Conference pp Enyironment and Development

Documentation Report of the Chairman of the Preparatory Committee for
the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, 1992, on the progress of the work of the
Committee (General Assembly resolution 44/228 of
22 December 1989)

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Iten 4.

Item 5.

It€n 6.

Iten 7.

Al 44/ 832/ Add,L
English
Fage 49

Protectiol of globa]. clinace for present and future qenerations of
nankind 3 6,/

Docunentation Report of the Sec retary-General. on tbe progress achieved
in the implenentation of ceneral A,ssenb.l.y resolution
44/207 or\ protection of global climate for present and
future generations of mankind (General Assenbly resoLution
44/207 of ZZ December t9g9)

Ipternational co-operaiion for the eradLcation of povertv in developing
countries

Docwnentation Progress report of the Secretary-Genelal on internationaf
co-operation for the eradicat.ion of poverty in developing
countries (ceneral Assernbly resolutlons 44/ZLI arrd 44/Zl?"
of 22 Decernber 1989 )

E:.ternal debl crisis and develoErment

Documeptation Report of the Sec retary-GeneraJ. o the implenentation of
ceneral Assernbly resolut.ion 44l20S entitled ',Torrards a
durable soLution to tlte eaternal debt problems" (General
Assembly resolutiou 44/2OS ot Z2 December lg8g)

Drafl decision entitLed ,,EsEablishnent of an advisory
connnission on debt and development.', (General Assembly
decision 44/445 of 22 December 1989)

Operational activities for developnent 37l

(a) Operational activities of th€ United Nations system

Documentation Report of the Di receor -General for DeveloFment. and
Internationaf Econonic Co-operation oa bhe operational
activiti.es of the Uniteal Nations systen (General Assernbly
resofutions 35/81 of 5 December 1990, 4ll171 of
5 Decenber 1986 anat 44/2LI of ZZ December 1989) i5l

35/ The report.s of the third and fourth plenary sessions of the
r nte rgove rnmenial Panel on crimate change, as weff as its inherin report, wltl be
circulated for information as official docunenta of the forcy-fifth session of the
General Assernbly (Assembly resolution 44/ZI7 of 22 December 1989).

3a/ fn accordance with its resolution 44/ZOg of 22 December 1909. the Generat
AssembLy wi.1l observe, during its forty-fifth session, the fortieth anniversary of
multilateraL technical co-operation for development within the united Nations
sy€tem. united Nation' Day in r.990. wednesday, 24 october, wir"r be the day for the
conrnenoration of this anniversarv.

Item 4.

Item 5.

Item 6.

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 49

Protection of global climate for present and fUture generations of
mankind 36/

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the progress achieved
in the implementation of General Assembly resolution
44/207 on protection of global climate for present and
future generations of mankind (General Assembly resolution
44/207 of 22 December 1989)

International co-operation for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries

Documentation Progress report of the Secretary-General on international
co-operation for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries (General Assembly resolutions 44/211 and 44/212
of 22 December 1989)

External debt crisis and development

DQcumentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/205 entitled "Towards a
durable solution to the external debt problems" (General
Assembly resolution 44/205 of 22 December 1989)

Draft decision entitled "Establishment of an advisory
commission on debt and development" (General Assembly
decision 44/445 of 22 December 1989)

Item 7. Operational activities for development 37/

(a) Operational activities of the United Nations system

Documentation Report of the Director-General for Development and
International Economic Co-operation on the operational
activities of the United Nations system (General Assembly
resolutions 35/81 of 5 December 1980. 41/171 of
5 December 1986 and 44/211 of 22 December 1989) ~/

lQ/ The reports of the third and fourth plenary sessions of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, as well as its interim report, will be
circulated for information as official documents of the forty-fifth session of the
General Assembly (Assembly resolution 44/217 of 22 December 1989).

37/ In accordance with its resolution 44/209 of 22 December 1989. the General
Assembly will observe, during its forty-fifth session, the fortieth anniversary of
multilateral technical co-operation for development within the United Nations
system. United Nations Day in 1990. Wednesday. 24 October. will be the day for the
commemoration of this anniversary.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ A32/ Add,. I
EngI lsh
Page 50

Report of the Secretary-Genera.L on fuEure arrangeneots for
the Uniteat Natiols Pledging Conference for Development
Activities (General A€sembly resolution 44/2Og of
22 December 1989 ) 3ll

(b) United Nations Devalopnent Progranme

Docunetrtation Report of the Governing Council' of the United Nations
DeveLopment Programme 35/

(c) United Nations Pogulation furd

Docrrmentation Relevatrt chaPter of the report of the Governing Council of
the Unlted Nations DeveloPment Progranne

Note by the S€c retary-Gsneral tralsmitting the rePort of
the Executive Director of the Utritett Natlons PopufaEion
Fund on future aeeds in tsh€ field of populaEion, inclutling
the developrnerc of r€source requiremBnts for inEernational
population assistance (General Aseenbly resoLution 44l21'o
of, 22 December 1989) 35/

(d) Uaited Natlons childreu's Fupd

Documeltatioa Relevant chaPter of th€ rePort of the Economic and SociaL
Councif,

(e) l{orld Food Programne

Docunertation Relevart chapter of tbe rePort of the EcoDornlc and Social
CouDcil

Iten 8. Trainirg ald research

(a) United Nations In€titute for Trainipg and Research

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on th€ itnplementatlon of
General Assenbly resofutiou 44/L75 on the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research (General Assembly
44/!75 of 19 Decenber 1989)

(b) Utlited Natioas University

Documentatior Report of the Council of the United Nalions University i5/

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 50

Report of the Secretary-General on future arrangements for
the United Nations Pledging Conference for Development
Activities (General Assembly resolution 44/208 of
22 December 1989) 121

(b) United Nations Development Programme

Documentation Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development Programme 121

(c) United Nations Population Fund

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Governing Council of
the United Nations Development Programme

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the Executive Director of the United Nations Population
Fund on future needs in the field of population, including
the development of resource requirements for international
population assistance (General Assembly resolution 44/210
of 22 December 1989) 121

(d) United NationS Children's· Fund

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and Social
Council

(e) World Food Programme

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and Social
Council

Item 8. Training and research

(a) United Nations Institute for Training and Research

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/175 on the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research (General Assembly
44/175 of 19 December 1989)

(b) United Nations University

Documentation Report of the Council of the United Nations University 12/

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44l832/Add.1
Engli6h
Page 51

Item 9. Specia] economiq and disaster relief assistancc

(a) Office of the United Nations Disaster ReLief Co-ordinator

Docutlentation Report of the Secretary-General on th6 work of the Offlce
of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator
(General Assenbly resolutior 2816 ()aryI) of
14 Decernber 1971 and Council resolution lggg/51 of
26 July 1988) 35/

(b) Special proqrammes of econornic aasistance

Docunentation Reports of the Secretary-Gene ral on iodividual countries
and regions

RePort of the Sec retary-Gene ral presenting surnmary reports
on countries lrith no separate individual reports in that
year

It.em 1.

199r 38/

Report of the Economic and SociaL Counci] 19/
(a) World Decade for CulturaL Developmett

Documentation Report of the sec retary-GeneraL of the uaitett Nations and
the Di rector-Gene ral of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization on t'he progress of
tbe World Decad€ for Cultural. Developnent. for the period
1990-1991 (Gereral Assembty recolution 4L/La7 of
8 Decenber !.986 anil 44/Zgg of 22 Decanber 1989) ig/

3B/ The progranne of nork and docrjmentation list for 1991
1990, taking into account the relevant decisions of the General
tor!y-Eifth ses s ion.

wil] be updated in
Assenbly at its

39/ The list of questions and documentation under this iten is onty
indicative of requests for reports fron the General Assembry. The list uill be
finaJ.ized after the Council conpletes its lrork in 1991. Under this itern che Second
connittee wilL also have before it the report. of the world Food councif. The
second committee may wish to decide not to cousider draft proposals on bhat report.
except specific proposals requiring action by the GeneraL Assenbty cont.ained in the
reports of the World Food Councif or the Eqonomic and Sociaf Council,.

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 51

Item 9. Special economic and disaster relief assistance

(a) Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co ordinator

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Office
of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator
(General Assembly resolution 2816 (XXVI) of
14 December 1971 and Council resolution 1988/51 of
26 JUly 1988) ~I

(b) Special programmes of economic assistance

DQcumentation Reports of the Secretary-General on individual countries
and regions

Report of the Secretary-General presenting summary reports
on countries with no separate individual reports in that
year

Item 1. Report of the Economic and Social Council ~/

(a) World Decade for Cultural Development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and
the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization on the progress of
the World Decade for Cultural Development for the period
1990-1991 (General Assembly resolution 41/187 of
8 December 1986 and 44/238 of 22 December 1989) 121

~I The programme of work and documentation list for 1991 will be updated in
1990. taking into account the relevant decisions of the General Assembly at its
forty-fifth session.

~/ The list of questions and documentation under this item is only
indicative of requests for reports from the General Assembly. The list will be
finalized after the Council completes its work in 1991. Under this item the Second
Committee will also have before it the report of the World Food Council. The
Second Committee may wish to decide not to consider draft proposals on that report.
except specific proposals requiring action by the General Assembly contained in the
reports of the World Food Council or the Economic and Social Council.

I •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a/ 44/ 432/ Add.L
English
Page 52

(b) Role of the public sector

Documentation Report of the Secretary-GeDeral on the rofe of the Public
se;tor in prolnoting the econornic develoPment of developing
counEries (General Assembly resolution 3335 (X;(IX) of
1? December 1974 aud Econonic and Sociaf Council
resolution f987/92 of 9 July 1987) f5/

(c) Tarqet for world Food Progranune Dledges for the Period 1993-1994

Documentation Relevant chaPter of the rePort of the Economic and Social
Council

rtem 2. Developmept and i,nternational econotnic co-oDeration

(a) Trade and devel.oDmept

Docunentation Report of the United Nations conference on Trade and
Developrneot on its eighth session (General A66embfy
resaJ.ution 44/2Lg of 22 December 1989)

Report of the Trade and Developnant Board (General
Assembl.y resolution 1995 (xlx) of 30 Decenber 1964) E5/

Repore of ths Seeret ary-GeDeral' otr the imPLenentation of
GeEeral A66embty resolution 44/215 oa economic measureB aE
a rneans of politicaL and economic co€rcion against
devetoping countries (General Assembly resolution 44l215
of 22 December 1989 )

Note by the Secret,ary-General Eransnitting the rePort of
the sec retary-Gene ral of the United Natsions Conforenee on
Trade and DeveloPment on Progress in ths imPlemeneatioa of
specific actio! related to the Particular needs and
problens of land-locked developing countries (General
Assenbly resofution 44/2L4 of 22 Decenber 1989)

(b) Effective mobiLization and inteqration of romen iD devefopment

Documentation RePorE of the Sec retary-General on the effective
rnobilization and integration of nomen in devefoPnent
(General Assernbly resoLuEiou 42/178 of
11. Decenber 1987 ) 35/

(c) Economic and technical co-operation alnonq develoPing counbries

Docunentation Report of the High-levef Conunittee on the Review of
Technical Co-oPeration anong DeveloPing Countrie6 (General
Ass€mblv resolution 33/l-34 of 19 December 1978) -35/

A/44/832/Add.l
English
Page 52

(b) Role of the public sector

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the role of the public
sector in promoting the economic development of developing
countries (General Assembly resolution 3335 (XXIX) of
17 December 1974 and Economic and Social Council
resolution 1987/92 of 9 July 1987) ~/

(c) Target for World Food Programme pledges for the period 1993 1994

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and Social
Council

Item 2. Development and international economic co-operation

(a) Trade and development

DQcumentation Report of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development on its eighth session (General Assembly
resolution 44/219 of 22 December 1989)

Report of the Trade and Development Board (General
Assembly resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964) 12/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/215 on economic measures as
a means of political and economic coercion against
developing countries (General Assembly resolution 44/215
of 22 December 1989)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development on progress in the implementation of
specific action related to the particular needs and
problems of land-locked developing countries (General
Assembly resolution 44/214 of 22 December 1989)

(b) Effective mobilization and integration of women in development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the effective
mobilization and integration of women in development
(General Assembly resolution 42/178 of
11 December 1987) ~/

(c) Economic and technical co-operation among developing countries

DQcumentation Report of the High-level Committee on the Review of
Technical Co-operation among Developing Countries (General
Assembly resolution 33/134 of 19 December 1918) ~/

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832/ 
^dd.LEnglish

Page 53

Report of the Secretary-Gene ral on the implementation of
General AssenbLy resofution 44/222 on economic and
technical co-operation among developing counEries (G€nera]
Assembly resolution 44/222 of 22 Decenber 1989)

Report of the Secre tary-Cene ra] on the implernentation of
General Assenbly resofution 44/221 o\ co-operation between
the Uaited Nations and the Southern African Developrnent
Co-ordination Conference (General Assembly resolution
44/221 of 22 December 1989)

Report of the Secretary-Geue ral on the implenentation of
General Assembfy decision 44/45O on further 6trengtheling
and improving intergove rnmental progranning exercises for
technicaf co-operation among developing countries (General
AcsenbLy decision 44/45O of 22 Decenber 1989)

(d) Envirorneat

DocumeEtation Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Frogranme (General Assembly resolutions
2997 (Ia(vII) of 15 Decenber 1972 and 44/224 of.
22 December 1989 ) 35/

Note by the Secretary-ceneral on international conventions
and protocols in the field of the environnent (Generaf
AssembLy resolution 3436 (xlo{ ) of I Decenber 1975)

Relevant section of the report of the Economic and Sociaf
Council o! the fildilgs and coDclusions of the. regiotal
conmis6ion6 on th€ traffic in toric and dangerous products
and wastes (General Assernbly resolution 44/226 of
22 December 1989, part I)

Report. of the Sec retary-GeDe ral on the control of
transboundary movements of hazardous wastBs and their
disposal (General Assernbly resolution 44/226 of
22 December 1989, part III) 35/

Progress report of the Secre Cary-Gereral on the
inp.lern€nCat ion of the resolution on the impfenent.ation of
General As6embly resolutioas 421186 and 42/L87 of
11 December 1987 (Generaf Assenbly resoluEion 44/227 of
2? Decenber 1989 ) 35/

Report of the SecreEary-General on the inPlementaLion of
GeneraL Assembly resolution 44/206 on possible adverse
effects of sea-1evel rise on islands and coastal areas,
particularly low-lying coastal areas (General Assenbly
reaolution 44/206 of 22 Decernber 1989) 35/

A/44/8321Add.l
English
Page 53

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/222 on economic and
technical co-operation among developing countries (General
Assembly resolution 44/222 of 22 December 1989)

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/221 on co-operation between
the United Nations and the Southern African Development
Co-ordination Conference (General Assembly resolution
44/221 of 22 December 1989)

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly decision 44/450 on further strengthening
and improving intergovernmental programming exercises for
technical co-operation among developing countries (General
Assembly decision 44/450 of 22 December 1989)

(d) Environment

Documentation Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme (General Assembly resolutions
2997 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972 and 44/224 of
22 December 1989) ~/

Note by the Secretary-General on international conventions
and protocols in the field of the environment (General
Assembly resolution 3436 (XXX) of 9 December 1975)

Relevant section of the report of the Economic and Social
Council on the findings and conclusions of the, regional
commissions on the traffic in toxic and dangerous products
and wastes (General Assembly resolution 44/226 of
22 December 1989, part I)

Report of the Secretary-General on the control of
transboundary movements of hazardous wastes and their
disposal (General Assembly resolution 44/226 of
22 December 1989, part III) ~/

Progress report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the resolution on the implementation of
General Assembly resolutions 42/186 and 42/187 of
11 December 1987 (General Assembly resolution 44/227 of
22 December 1989) J2/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 44/206 on possible adverse
effects of sea-level rise on islands and coastal areas,
particularly low-lying coastal areas (General Assembly
resolution 44/206 of 22 December 1989) J2/

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44 / 832 / Add, L
Engl i sh
Page 54

I tern 3

(e) Desertification and drouqht

Doclrmentation Report of the Sec retary-c€neral on the situalion in
countries stricken by desertification and drought in
Africa (ceneral Assenbly decision 44/437 of
19 December 1989 and Econornic and Social Counci.I
resolution 1989/103 of 27 July 1989) 35/

Report of the Sec retary-Gene ral on the impfernentation of
the resol.utions on the Plan of Action to Combat
Desertification (ceneral Assembly resolutions 44/172 A
and B of ?2 December 1989) 35/

Report of the Sec retary-Gene ral on the implementat_ion of
the tnediun-term and fotrg-term recovery and rehabilitation
progranune in the Sudano-Sahelian region (General Assembly
resolutions 3054 ()A<VIII) of 17 October 1973 and 4O/2O9 of
17 December 1985) 3S/

(f) Hunan seEtLements

Documentation Report of the Conmission on Human Settlernents, including
the report of the Conmission on the imp.lementation of the
Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000 (General
Assembly resolutions 32/162 af 19 December L977, 43/I8O
and 43/181 of 20 December 1988 and Council resolution
L9't8/L of 12 Jaruary r97g) 35/

Report of the Sec re tary-Gene raL on the living conditions
of Lhe Pa1e6t.inian people in lhe occupied palestinian
territory (ceneral Assernbly resolution 44/L74 of
22 December 1989) iS/

(S) Science and techuology for deveJ.opmetrt

Docurnentation Report of the Inte rgovernmental Cornnittee on Science and
Techaology for Development (General. Assernbly resolutions
34/2LB of 19 December 1979 and 39/217 of
18 Decenber 1984 ) f5/

United Nations Coaference on Envirorunent and Development

Docunentation Report of Che Chairnan of the preparatory Connittee of the
Unitetl Nations Conference on Environrnent and Developnent,
1992, on the progress of the lrork of the Commibtee
(General Assenbly resofution 44/228 ot 22 December 1989)

A/44/8321Add.1
English
Page 54

(e) Desertification and drought

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the situation in
countries stricken by desertification and drought in
Africa (General Assembly decision 44/437 of
19 December 1989 and Economic and Social Council
resolution 1989/103 of 27 July 1989) ~/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
the resolutions on the Plan of Action to Combat
Desertification (General Assembly resolutions 44/172 A
and B of 22 December 1989) 12/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
the medium-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation
programme in the Sudano-Sabelian region (General Assembly
resolutions 3054 (XXVIII) of 17 October 1973 and 40/209 of
17 December 1985) ~/

(f) Human settlements

DQcumentation Report of the Commission on Human Settlements, including
the report of the Commission on the implementation of the
Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000 (General
Assembly resolutions 32/162 of 19 December 1977, 43/180
and 43/181 of 20 December 1988 and Council resolution
1978/1 of 12 January 1978) ~/

Report of the Secretary-General on the living conditions
of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian
territory (General Assembly resolution 44/174 of
22 December 1989) ~/

(g) Science and technology for deye10pment

Doc.ooentation Report of the Intergovernmental Committee on Science and
Technology for Development (General Assembly resolutions
34/218 of 19 December 1979 and 39/217 of
18 December 1984) ~/

Item 3. United Nations Conference on Environment and Development

Documentation Report of the Chairman of the Preparatory Committee of the
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development,
1992, on the progress of the work of the Committee
(General Assembly resolution 44/228 of 22 December 1989)

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/ 44/ 832 / Add, L
Er!91ish
Page 55

Iten 4. International co-operation for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries

Docuinentation Repor! of the Sec retary-Geue ra] on international
co-operat.iou for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries (General Assenbly resofutions 44/2lI ar\d 44/212
of 22 December 1989 )

Itern 5. Operational act.ivi.ties for developnent

(a) Operational activities of the United Nations system

Documentation Report of the Di rector -Gene r al- for Development and
International- Economic Co-operation on the operat.iona.l
activilies of the United Nations systern (Ceneral Assembty
resolutions 44/I'11, of 19 Decernber 1989 and 44/2Il ot
22 December 1989 ) 35/

(b) United Nations Development pro€rramme

Documentatiou Report of the coverning Council of the United Nations
Devefopment Progranne !5/

(c) United Natioas Capital Development Fund

Docunentation Relevant. chapter of the report of the Governing Council of
the United Natiolrs Deve].oDment Prograflne

(d) United Nations technicaL co-operation acLivities

Docunentation Report of the Secre tary-General on United Nations
technical co-op6ration activitiee

Relevant chapter of the report of the Goveruing Council of
the United Nations Developnent Programme

(e) United Nations voLunteers Broqr€uNne

Documentation Refevant chapter of the report of the Governing Council of
the United Nations Development. Proqramme

Item 6. lnternatioDal Decade for Natural Disaster Realuction

DocumentaEion Report of the Sec re t.ary-Gene ral on the activities of the
InternationaL Decade for Natural DisasLer Reduct.ion
(Generat Assernbly resolution 44/236 ot
22 Decenber 1989 ) 35/

Item 4.

1V44/8321Add.l
English
Page 55

International co-operation for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on international
co-operation for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries (General Assembly resolutions 441211 and 44/212
of 22 December 1989)

J. tem 5. Operational Betlvi ties for development

(a) Operational activities of the United Nations system

DQcumentation Report of the Director-General for Development and
International Economic Co-operation on the operational
activities of the United Nations system (General Assembly
resolutions 44/171 of 19 December 1989 and 44/211 of
22 December 1989) 12/

(b) United Nations Deyelopment Programme

DQcumentation Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development Programme 12/

(c) United Nations Capital Deyelopment Fund

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Governing Council of
the United Nations Development Programme

(d) United Nations technical co operation activities

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on United Nations
technical co-operation activities

Relevant chapter of the report of the Governing Council of
the United Nations Development Programme

(e) United Nations Volunteers programme

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Governing Council of
the United Nations Development Programme

1 tern 6. International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the activities of the
International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction
(General Assembly resolution 44/236 of
22 December 1989) ]2/

I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44l832/Add.l
English
Page 56

rLern 7. $pecial proqraflmes of econonic assistance

Docunentati.on Reports of the Sec retary-Gene ral. on individual countries

Report of bhe Sec retary-General Presenting sutnmary rePorts
on countries lritb no separate inilividual reports in that
year

1\/44/8321l\dd.l
English
Page 56

Item 7. Special programmes of economic assistance

Documentation Reports of the Secretary-General on individual countries

Report of the Secretary-General presenting summary reports
on countries with no separate individual reports in that
year

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


