
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Qeneral Assembly
Diatr.
GENERAL

A/44/707
6 December 1909

ORIGINALt ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 65

SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR IMPACT
ON INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

wrteur tM r . Dimitris PLATIS (Greece)

I , INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Scientific and technological develoamento  and their impact
on international security” was included in the provisional agenda of the
forty-fourth session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 43177 A of
7 December 1988,

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3, At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, nam81y,  items 49 to 69
and 151. Tile deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and the
25th meetings, from 16 October to 1 November (see A/C.1/44/PV.3-25),  Consideration
of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place between the 26th and
41st meetings, from 2 to 17 November (see A/C.l/44/PV,26-41).

4. In connection with item 65, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the S8Cretary48neral  on scientific and t8ChnOlOgiCal
developments and their impact on international security (A/44/487 and Add.1 and 2):

(b) Letter dated 19 July 1989 from the Chargi  d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the final documents of the Ministerial Meeting of

89-31786 0304P  (E) / ,..



Al44 1707
English
Page 2

the Co-ordinatinq Bureau 9f the Movement of ?Jon-Aligned  Countries, held at Harare,
from 17 to 19 May 3.9A9 (A/44/409-6/20743 and Corr.1  and 2)~

(c) Letter dated 22 September 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the Srctetory-General, transmitting
the final documen+s  of the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held a.t Belgrade, from 4 to 7 September 1989
( A / 4 4 / 5 5 1 - S / 2 0 8 7 0 ) .

I I . CORSIDERAT:ON  OF PROPOSALS

A .  Prnft resolutipn A/C.1/44/L.41 Rev.1  a&J

5. On 30 October, the Byelorw Sovj& SocLa)ist  Rwlic. H-Y. And&9
. 0 and Veneouels submitted a draft resolution entitlkd

“Scientific and technological developments and their impact on international
security” (A/C.1/44/L.41), which was later also sponsored by Q~9hgslovak&,
the GDemocratfc  and Romania. The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of India at the 31st meeting, on 8 November, and read as follows!

IIn tta reaolutdon  43/77 A of 7 December 1988,

“Rotin- co- the potential in,technological  advances for
application to military purposes0 thus extending the arms race in new
directions,

II .v that such a development will have a negative impact on the
security unvironment, While  causing a major setback to disarmament efforts,

I@-, in this context, the importance of effectively addresainq
this problem and ensuring that scientific and t8ChnOlOqiCal  deVelOpm8ntS  are
not exploited for military purpose8 but harnessed for the common benefit of
mankind,

“D the intereats of the international Community  in the subject
and the need to closely follow such developmelts,

“mm that the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organisation 11 calls for ‘harnessing scientific and techno&qical  progress
for humanity’s benefit rather than for armed confrontations’ and that ‘it is
important to ensure that a qualitative arms race will not fo-iow quantitative
disarmament ’ ,

ral wlv, Forty-fourth Seam I

/ . . .



A/44/707
Eagli~;h
Page 3

“u the report of the Secretary-General a/ on thin Item,

“1. Takea not8 of the preliminary work undertaken by the
Secretary-General to follow future scientific and technological developments,
especially those which have potential military applications, and to evnluate
their impact on international security;

II 2 . m the Secretary-general to conclude this work 80 that a
report can be submitted to the General Assembly at ita forty-fifth session;

“3. Takcra notQ that the procerr of establishing national expert panels
by Members States haa already begun)

“4 . m all Member States to participate by communicating their
views to the Secretary-General and eatabliahing  panele  at the national level
to monitor and evaluate developmentat

“5. Decides to include ir the provis ional  agenda of  the forty-f i f th
session the item entitled ‘Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security’.”

6. On 14 November, the ap@nsors submitted  a revised draft resolution
(A/C,1/44/L.41/Rev.l),  which read c& follows:

Q*- its resolution 43177 A of 7 December 1988,

*I- with cm the potential in technological advances for
application to military purposes, which could lead to the emergence of an
entirely new Clara  of weapon ryatema,

“w that suoh a development will have a negative impact on the
security environment, while causing a major retback  to disarmament efforts,

“w, in this context, the importance of effectively addressing
this problem and ensuring that scientific and technological devel-pments  are
not exploited for such military purposes but harnessed for the common benefit
of mankind,

“e the interests of the international community in the subject
and the need to closely follow ouch developments,

*‘q that sciantific and technological development8 can have both
civilian and military applications and that progress in science and technology
for civilian applications needs to be maintained and encouraged,

21 A/44/401  and Add.1.

/ . . .



A/44/707
English
Page 4

*‘M that the proporal  contained in resolution 43 ‘77 A is without
prejudice to research and development  being undetaken  for peaceful
purposes I

q&m the report of the Secretary-General 31 on this item,

“1. w of the Freliminary  work undertaken by the
Secretary-General to follow future scientific and technological developments,
especially those which have potential military applications, and to evaluate
their impact on international securityt

“2 . u& the Secretary-General to conclude this work so that a
report can be submitted to the GeiAeral  Assembly at its forty-fifth session;

“3 * w no& that the proG&oe of establishing national expert panels
by Member States has already begun;

“4 , m Member States to participate by communicating their views
to the Secretary-General and invites them to establish panels at the national
level to monitor and evaluate developmentsr

“5. Decidea  to include in the provis ional  agenda of  i ts  forty-f i f th
session the i tem entitled *Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security’.”

7. On 15 November, the sponsors submitted a further revision of the draft
resolution (A/C.1/44/L.41/Rev.2), which was introduced by the representative of
xndip at the 40th meeting, on 17 November. The draft resolution contained the
following changes!

(a) In the third preambular paragraph, the phrase “while causing a major
setback”, was revised to read “and cauae a major setback”t

(b) The fourth preambular paragraph was replaced by the following text:

“&ress~, in this context, the importance of preventing this negative
impact by effectively addressing this problem am ensuring that scientific and
technological developments are harnessed for the common benefit of mankind,“.

0. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/44/L.41/Rev.2  by a recorded vote of 113 to 3, with 15 abstentions (see
para. 12, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

Infavourr Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivi?., Botswana, Braail, Bulgaria, Burkina Pano,  Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba,

31 A/44/407 and Add.1 e.nd 2.



A/44/707
English
Page 5

Cyprus, Caechoalovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaarnbique,  Myanmar, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Quinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,  Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tansania, Uruguay, Veneruela,  Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainstl France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

-1 Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Turkey.

B .  Prnft rev44/L.46 ati Rev.&

9, Ou 30 October, the \, the WmB.B
D_emocl and Merico submitted a draft resolution (A1C.11441L.46)
entitled “Science and technology for disarmament”, which was later also sponsored
by CmosloYBhjLBL.  The draft resolution was irtroduced by the representative of
the German Democratic Republic at the 31at meeting, on 8 November.

10. On 14 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/44/L,46/Rev.l),  which contained the following changes:

(a) The second preambular paragraph, which had read!

“Noting with CO- the dangers resulting from the use of scientific and
technological achievements for weapons purposes,”

was revised to read as follows:

*‘&&& the interest of the international community in the peaceful uses
of  sc ien t i f i c  and  ttitihnologica?  achievements,“t

(b) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the word “the” was deleted before the
word “respective”~

(c) A new fifth preambular paragraph was added, which read as follows:

/ *..



A/44/107
English
Page 6

“m that aaiontifically  and technologically  more
advanced States bear a special reaponaibility for diaaeminating information on
and promoting the application of science and technology in the field of
diaarmamont,“~

(d) The following words were added at the end of the former fifth preambular
paragraph (now sixth proambular paragraph):

“in&~&A& in the fields of verification of compliance with agreements on
arms limitation and disarmament, application of technologies for improved
moans of verification as well as conversion of military industry to civilian
production, “.

11’ At its 39th meeting , on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/44/L.46/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 133 to none, with 1 abstention (see
para. 12, draft resolution 8). The voting was as follows:

InfavQlu: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byeloruaaian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central Afriaan  Republia, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cdte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Caochoalovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Gambia, German  Democratic Republic, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Biaaau, Guyana, Hungary, Iaeland,  India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Pooplo’a Democratic Republic,  Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
MalayaL  Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Moaambique, Myanmar,  Nepal, Notherlanda, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigor, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
Now Guinea, Paraguay, Poru, Philippinoa, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swasiland,  Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic,  Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviot Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Ropublica, Unitod Arab Cmiratoa, United Kingdom of Groat Britain
and Northorn  Iroland,  United Republic of Tanaania, Uruguay,
Veneouola, Viot Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

)rcrainrtt Nono.

Ab.Rdnbr United States of America.

/ . . .



A/44/707
English
Page 7

III. RECOWENDATIONS  OF THE FIRST COMITTEE

12, The First Committee recommends to the Goners1 Assembly the adoption of the
following draft reaolutiona~

A

ic and dovn

The*

m its resolution 43177 A of 7 Docombor 1988,

u with m the potontial in toohnological advancoa for ,
application to military purposes , which could lead to tho emorgonce of an
entirely new class of woapon aystoms,

Ra.ocmieincl  that such a dovolopmont will havo a negative impact on ther
security environment and cauao a major setback to disarmament efforts,

m, in th i s  context, tho  importance  o f  preventing th i s  negat ive
impact by effc ively addroasing this problem and ensuring that scientific and
technological svelopmenta are barneased for the common benefit of mankind,

v the intoroata of the international community in the subject
and the need to follow closely such dovelopments,

v that scientifia and technological devolopmenta can have both
civilian and military applications and that progrosa in acionco and technology
for civilian applications needs to bo maintained and encouraged,

w that the proposal contained  in resolution 43177 A is without
prejudice to research and dovelopmont offorta being undertaken for peaceful
purposes #

Having tks report of the Secretary-General &/ on this question,

1. v of the preliminary work undortaken by tho
Secretary-General to follow futuro scientific and technological  developments,
especially those which have potential military applications, and to evaluate
their impact on international socurityt

41 A/44/407 and Add.1 and 2.

/ . . .



A/44/707
English
Page 0

2 . ms the Secretary-Qeneral to conclude this work so that a
report can be submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth sessionr

3 . Hotss  that the process of establishing national expert panels by
Member States has already begun;

4 . mugas Member States to participate by communicating their views
to the Secretary-General and invites them to establish panels at the national
level to monitor and evaluate developments;

5. Decidea to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fifth
session the item entitled “Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security”.

B

C.onsidQ.rJng that science and technology can profoundly contribute to
solving the problems of mankind, especially to promoting its social and
economic development,

wag the interest of the international community in the peaceful uses
of scientific and technological achievements,

Rezognip.bg  the vast possibilities that scientific and technological
progress offers for supporting disarmament negotiations and implementing their
relults, l&.ers.Ji, in the fields of verification of compliance with
agreements on arms limitation and disarmament as well as conversion of
military industry to civilian produc&ion,

I?a_l_c_&g  respective activities undertaken so far in this area by States,
national and international scientific and technological institutions,

Taking ..i.~.to-..~~u.~.t  that scientifically and technologically more advanced
States bear a special responsibility for disseminating information on and
promoting the application of science and technology in the field of
disarmament,

&nside.rj,ng  the need for an intensification and extension of such
activities, as well as international co-operation, with a view to using
scientific and technological achievements for disarmament related purposes,
j.n.ter.-alia, in the fields of verification of compliance with agreements on
arms limitation and disarmament, application of technologies for improved
means of verification and conversion of mi’.itary industry to civilian
production,

/ . . I



A/44/707
English
Page 9

1. Takeann^te.  of national and international activities to use
scientific anc¶ technological achievements for disarmament related purposest

2 . v Member States and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organisations to intensify and extend such activities, to t¶evelop
international co-operation in this area and to keep the United Nations
informed about progress in this fielc¶]

3 . I&G&&U to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fifth
session an item entitled “Science and technology for disarmament”.

-----


