
















































UNITED
NATIONS

A
- - - . . - - - . - - - - .-. --e--m_*-_ --..-__--.--.-.----_---._-.--.~-

General Assembly
Dis tr .
GENERAL

A/44/740
17 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENQLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda items 118 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTINO  OF INDEPENDENCE
TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND
THE INTERNATIONAL IRSTITUTIONS  ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

e Fourth CQK&&QRQ

-1 Mr. Mohsnunad  Sseed AL-KIND1  (United Arab Emirates)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
forty-fourth session the following itemet

"118, Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Ccuntries and Peoples by the specialised agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations."

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council. I’

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth Committee
agenda item 118, together with chapters I and VI (sect. C) of the report of the
Economic and Social Council (A/44/3), J,/ which relate to the item.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the Fourth Committc? 4ecided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 116, 118 and 12, li9 and 120, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would be
considered separately.

11 Offic&l&c=ords  of the General Assembly, Forty-fourth Session,
Supelement No,.3- (A/44/3).

89-29154 0229P (E) / . . .



A / 4 4 / 7 4 0
English
Page 2

3, The Fourth Committee considered items 118 and 12 at ita 5th and 9th to
16th meetings, between 10 and 25 October (see A/C,4/44/SR.5,  9-16).  The general
debate on the items referred to above, including the present items, took place at
the 9th to 15th meetings, between 18 and 23 October.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

4 . At the 5th meeting, on 10 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1989 and drew
attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee)  relating to item 118
(A/44/23 (Part (IV)) 21 containing, a alip, the related draft  resolution
submitted by the Committee for the consideration of the Fourth Committee.

5. During its consideration of the i tem, the Fourth Committee had before it the
report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraph 23 of General
Assembly resolution 43130 of 22 November 1988 (A/44/297 and Add.1 and 2).

6 . At its 16th meeting, on 25 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 15 of chapter VII of the report of the Special
Committee (A/44/23 (Part IV)) by A record-d vote of 134 to 2, with 10 abstentions
(see pars.  7).  31 The vot ing  was as fol lows!

In: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belise,  Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil,  Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cdte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, CsPshoslovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Dciullark, Djibouti, Ecuador,  Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji,  Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Janohiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,

21 To be incorporated in Ma1 Records of the General A&gembly,
Fortv-four-on,  wlement NQ%-~  (A/44/23).

31 Statements in explanation of vote were made Oy the representatives of the
following Member States8 Australia, Austria, Botswana, Canada, Chile, France,
Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Spain, Swsden  (on behalf also of
Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway), United Fingdum OF Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and Uruguay.

/ . . .



A/44/740
English
Page 3

Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Myanmar, Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama L Papua New Quinea,  Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent ard the
Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,  Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunirria, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of SOviat
Socialist Republica, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Veneauela,  Viet Nam, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbtiwe.

Acrainrrtl United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

-1 Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal.

III, RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

7. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolutionr

v the it:em entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independent:  to Colonial Countrier  and Peoples by the
specialised agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations”,

wm the reports submitted on the item by the
Secretary-General $1 and the Chairman of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 51

-a in m the relevant provisions of the final document8 of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the Organisation  of African Unity,

41 A/44/297 and Add.1 and 2.

.5/ A/AC.109/L.1705

/ . . .



A/44/740
English
Page 4

m the emplacement on 1 April 1989 of the United Nations
Transition Assistance Qroup in Namibia and encouraged by the beginning of the
independence procerr under the terms of Security Council resolution 435 (1978)
of 29 September 1978,

w co- of the continuing critical need of the people of
Namibia, particularly during the period of transition to and immediately after
independence, for concrete assistance from the specialised agencies nnd the
international institutions  associated with the United Nations,

M the assistance extended thus far to colonial Territories by
certain specialised agencies and other organiaations of the United Nations
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, and
considering that such assistance should be expanded further, commensurate with
the pressing need8 of the peoplea  concerned for erterral asaistaace,

Wg the importance of securing additional resources for funding
expanding programmes of assistance for the peoples concerned and the need to
enlist the support of the major funding institutions within the United Nations
system in that regard,

&&ing with deep COW that South Africa’s practice of 8lpertheti  and
acts of destabilisation against the front-line and neighbouring States
continue to present a serious threat to intsrnational  peace and security,

&&.&&~g  the responsibility of the specialised agencies and other
organisations of the United Nations sy*tem to take all the necessary measures,
within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full and apeedy
implementation of General  Aslrembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutionc of the United Yations, particularly those relat ing to the
extension of assistance to the peoples of the colonial Territories,

res&nu its eporeciatiQn  to the General Secretariat of the
Organiaation of African Unity for the continued co-operation and assistance it
has extended to the apecialiaed agencies and other organizations  of the United
Nations system in connection with the implementation of the relevant
resolutions cf the United Nations, and convinced that closer contacts and
consultations bet.1 Jen the specialised agencies and other organizationa of the
United Nations system and regional organisations help to facilitate the
effective formulation of assistance programmes to the peoples concerned,

Pite to the Governments of the front-line States
for the consistent support extended to the people of Namibia in their quest
for independence and aware of the particular needs of those Governments for
international  assistance,

Considering that the retention of any links with the racist regime of
South Africa is tantamount to support for, or endorsement of, the repressive
policy and practice of wthebj pursued by that regime against the people of
SOl*th  Africa and its policy of destabilization  against the neighbouring
African States,



A/44/740
English
Page 5

886xjLuFD$  the importance of the activities of non-governmental
organitistions aimed at putting an end to the assistance which is still being
rsndered to South Africa by some specialised  agencies,

w of the imperative need to keep undvr continuous review the
activities of the specialiaad  agencies and othsx organisations of the United
Nations system in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions
relating to decolonization,

1. Aptrr0vfl-s  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonia l Countries and Peoples relating to the item) a/

2. m that the specialised aqencies and other organisations and
institutiona of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolut ions of the United Nat ions in  the i r  efforts  to contribute,
within their spheres of competence, to the full and speedy implementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonicl  Countrieo and
Peoples r’

3. B that the recognition by the General Assembly, the
Security Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the
struggle of colonial peoples to exercise their right to self-determination and
independence ontaile, as a corollary, the extension by the specialised
agencier and other organisations of the United Nations system of all the
necessary moral and material assistance to those peoples and their national
liberation movements t

4. Bm to those specialised agencies and other
organisations of the Irnited  Nations system that have continued to co-operate
in varying degrees with the United Nations and the Organisation  of African
Unity in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other
relevant resolutions of the United Nations, and urges all the specialised
agencies and other organizations  of the United Nations system to accelerate
the full and speedy implementation of the relevant provisions of those
resolutionst

5. Reaue_sM  the specialised agencies and other organisations of the
United Nations system to render or continue to render, as a matter of urgency,
all possible moral and material assistance to the colcnial  peoples, bearing in
mind that such assistance should not only meet their immediate needs but also
create conditions for development after they have exercised their right to
self-determination and independencer

6. Bmfg all speaialiaed  agencies end other organioations  of the
United Nations system to render concrete assistance to the people of Namibia,
in particular during the period of transition to and immediately after
independence;

61 A/44/23 (Part IV), chap, VII.

/ , * .



A/44/740
English
Page 6

7 . ! Jmxmlk3OnCBBQain the specialised agencies and other orqanizations
of the Unitvd  Nations system to continue to orovide  all moral and material
assistance to the newly independent and emerging States so as to enable them
to achieve genuine economic independence 1

0. its recommendation that the apecialized agencies and
other organisations  of the IJnited Nations system should initiate or broaden
contacts and co-operation with the colonial peoples and t:le administering
Powers concerned, directly or, where appropriate, through regional
orsaniaations, in order to intensify programmes of uasistance,  to facilitate
ana to accelerate the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)8

9, m the executive heads of the specializeu  agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system, in co-operation with the regional
and other organisations where appropriate, to submit to their governing and
legislative organs concrete proposal8 for the full implementation o? Lne
relevant United Nations decisions, particularly specific programmes of
assistance to the peoples of the colonial Territories and their national
liberation  movements;

10. ‘1-s once aqcajLn the executive heads of the World Eank and the
Interndtlonal Monetary Fund to draw the attention of their governing bodies to
the present resolution and urges them to introduce flexible procedures to
prepare specific programmes for the peoples of the colonial Territories;

11. LJ&I~~  the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system that have not already done so to include in the agenda of the
regular meetings of their govern,ng bodies a separate item on the progress
they have made in the implementation of resolution 1514 (XV) and other
relevant resolutions of t Jni ted Nations #

12. w the specialized agencies and other organizat;ons  and
institutions of the United Nations system to extend substantial material
assistance to the Governments of the front-line States in order to enable them
to resist the destabilization being perpetrated by the racist rt’ lime of South
Africa;

13. RBausstB  the specialised agencies and other organisations of the
United Nations system to continue to take, in accordance with the relevant
resolutions of the General Assei,. ;y and the Security Council, all necessary
measures to withhold any financial, economic, technical  or  other assistance
from the Government of South Africa and to refrain from taking any action that
might imply support for, or endorsement of, the repressive policy and practice
of ap.g-rth-s.id  pursued by the racist r6gime against the people of South Africa
and its policy of destabilization against the neiyhbouring African States;

14. Invites the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Na+inr?s  system to co-operate with the Action for Resisting Invasion,
Colonialism and &s&&sa Fund, establish& by the non-aligned countries, with
the cPrNnon objective of providing emergency assistance to the front-line



A/44/740
English
Page 7

States and national liberation movementa in southern Africa in their struggle
against thee r/gImei

15, Recommenaa that all Governments should intensify their efforts in
the specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system
of which they sre membe s to ensure the full and effective implementation of
General Assembly reso!ution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the
United Nations and, in that connection, should accord priority to the question
of prvvidin?  assistance on an emergency basis to the peoples of the colonial
Territories)

16, Recruests  the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialised
agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures  for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the
assistance of those agencies and organisations, a report on the action taken
in implementation of the relevant resolutions, including the present
resolution,  since the circulat ion of his  previous report)

17. Beauesu  the Economic and iocial Council to continue, as
appropriate, to consider, in consultation  with the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Ptlop~??,  appropriate measures for
do-ordination of the policies and activities ,i <:1.,x  specialised agencies and
other organizations  of the United Nations syst.m in implementing the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembifi

18. Regueata  the specialised agencies t.o report periodically to the
Secretary-General on their implements;ion  of the present resolutiont

19. Benuests the Special Commietecl  to continue to examine the item and
to report the-eon to the General Atgembly at its forty-fifth session.


