
















































UNITED
NATIONS

benersl Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/703
29 November 1909

ORIGINAL, ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 61

REDUCTION OF MILITARY BUDGETS

&poor-t Mr, Dimitris PLATIS (Greece)

I. INTRODUCTION

1, The item entitled "Reduction of military budgets" was included in the
provisional agenda of the forty-fourth session in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 43173 of 7 December 1968.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At ita 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 69
and 151. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and the
25th meetings, from 16 October to 1 November (see A/C.1/44/PV.3-25).  Consideration
of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place between 2 and
17 November (see A/C.1/44/PV.26-41).

4. In connection with item 61, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Disarmament Commission; 11

11 Official Records of_~~~.~~e~~~a_lAssombly,Eot.~-fnurthSession,
&pplement No, 42 (A/44/42).

89-30835 0264P (E) / . . .



A / 4 4 / 7 0 3
Snglirh
Page 2

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on military expenditures in standardized
form reported by States (A/44/422 and Add.l)t

(c) Letter dated 25 January 1989 from the Permanent Representative of the
Gc+man Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/44/96)1

(d) Letter dated 6 February 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nationa  addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/113);

(0) Letter dated 6 February 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
texts of a statement by the Committee of the Ministers of Dsfence of the Warsaw
Treaty member States entitled “On the relative strength of the armed forces and
armaments of the Warsaw Treaty Organization  and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation in Europe and adjacent water areas” and of another statement entitled
“Correlation of the armed forces and basic types of armaments of the Warsaw Treaty
Orqaniaation and the North Atlantic Treaty Orqanization in Europe and adjacent
water areas”, released on 3C January 1989 (A/44/114)1

(f) Letter dated 3 March 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Caechoslovakia  to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/163):

(q) Letter dated 3 March 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Mongolia
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A,‘44/164)~

(h) Letter dated 3 March 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Poland to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Goneral (A/44/:55)1

(i) Letter dated 13 April 1989 from the Permanent Representative of the
German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the texts of the communiqui,  the declaration and
the appeal issued by the Committee of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the
States Parties to the Warsaw Treaty at its session held at Berlin on 11 and
12 April 1989 (A/44/22a);

(j) Letter dated 24 May 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Romania to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
appeal of the States Parties to the Warsaw Treaty to the member States of the North
Atlantic Troaty Orqanization (A/44/295);

(k) Letter dated 11 July 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Romania to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
communiquci of the meeting of the Political Consultative Committee of the States
Parties to the Warsaw Treaty, held at Bucharest on 7 and 8 July 1989 (~/441386)~

(1) Letter dated 19 July 1989 from the Charqh d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the final documents of the Ministerial
Meeting of the Co-ordinatinq Bureau of the Movement of Nsn-Aligned Countries, hold
at Harare from 17 to 19 May 1989 (A/44/409-S/20743 and Corr.1 and 2)1

/ . . .



A/44/703
English
Page 3

(m) Letter dated 22 September 1989 from the Permanent Representstive of
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addreared to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the texts of the final documentr of the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or
Govrrnment of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1989 (A/44/551-S/20870)1

(n) Letter dated 8 November 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Poland
to the United Nation8 addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of
the communigui of the meeting of the Committee of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of
the States Parties to the Warraw  Treaty, held at Warrraw  on 26 end 27 October 1989
(A/C.X/44/7).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A .  mt rm A/CJ/44/L,36

On JO October, the B Soviet Soc~c. Cqmqm, the
&F-tic RBia. Peru, Romania and the w
&~.yi& So-t m submitted a draft resolution entitled “Reduction of
military budgets” (A/C.1/44/L.36), which wee later also sponsored by -la. Beti,
the mile. Cobmbia, Costa, the -a, a, the
w and W. The k\raft rerrolution warr introduced by the
representative  of Romania at tha 27th meeting, on 6 November,

6 . At ito 38th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolutibn
A/C.1/44/L.36  by a recorded vote of 94 to 10, with 18 abstentions (see para, 10,
draft resolution A). The voting was aa followsa 21

Intavoura Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Amtria,  Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brunei Daruaaalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cbte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoslovakia,  Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, Indo!Aeoia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,
Jamaica, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

- - -

2)’ Subsequently, the delegation of Algeria indicated that it had intended to
abstain on the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A/44/703
Engli8h
Page 4

-8 Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlandr, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Statar of America.

-1 Braail, Denmark,  Egypt ,  Iceland,  India,  Irag, Ierael,  Japan,
Jordan, Norway, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emircrter, Yemen.

B. PrLIft  rw b/C.1/44/L.44  and

7. On 30 October, the -tit So-c. C-on. Denmark.
.a l -I the g and the

of Sov- rubmitted a draft rerrolution entitled “Military
budgetr” (A/C.l/ll/L.44), which war later also 8ponrored by Qabon,
m and m. The draft relJolution wa8 introduced by the representative of
the Federal Republic of Gormany a\: the 318t meeting, on 8 November.

8. On 14 November, the oponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/44/L,44/Rev.l), containing the following clange8:

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, the phrme *‘arms  coutrol” was replaced
by “arms 1imitationr”r

(b) In operative paragraph 1, the word ‘I-” wa8 replaced by
“m’*, and the phrase “require8 the elaboration of agreed methods” was
revi8ed to read “requires also agreed methods”.

9, At itr 38th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/44/L.44/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 105 to none, with 16 abstention8 (see
para.  10, draft resolution B). The voting war as follows: 91

In8 Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Au8tralia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladrrh, Barbndor, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivirr, Braail, Brunei Darusralam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byelorusaian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Can&d&,  Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cbte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Caechoslovakia,  Denmark, Dominican
Republic, Ecu&dor, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, German
Democrstic  Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghan&, Greece,
Guat,emala, Guine8, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indorlesia,
Iran (Islsmic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Kenya, Lao People’8 Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Madagsscar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mexico, Mongolia, Moaambique, Mymmr,  Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama,

sl/ Subsequently, the delegation of Bahrain indicated thst it had intended to
abstain on the draft resolution.



A/44/703
English
Page 5

Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Rwanda, Senegal, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaailand, Sweden,
Thailand, Togo, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialirt Republics, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Nam,
Yugorlavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe.

lAm.inal None.

Abrtainincr: Algeria, Angola, Cuba, Egypt, India. Iraq, Jordan, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Ar8b Republic,
TUniSi&, Unitsd Arab Emirates, Yemen, Zambi8.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

10. The First Committee recommend8 to the General ASSOmbly the adoption of the
following draft resolutionsa

A

m of reversing the arma r&co and military expenditures, which
constitute a heavy burden for the economies of all nations and have harmful
effects on world peace and aecur.Cty,

wti that the reduction of militaiy expenditure8 88 a result of the
progress in diS&rmament negotiations will have favourable consequdncer on the
world economic and financial situation,

ReaffirminP that the resources released through the reduction of military
expenditure8 could be reallocated to the economic sad social development of
all States, particularly for the benefit cf the developing countries,

m convim that the reduction of military expenditure8 will have a
positive impact on the process of strengthening confidence and improving
international security and co-operation among States,

Desirous of bringing its conLribution to the achievement of these goals,

1. Welcames the work of the Disermament  Commission 41 on the
identification and elaboration of a set of principles that should govern

OfficialLtheGeneral QrnR-Iyd3Lr.kY.r r,sw r_th_6eacrion  fi
( A / 4 4 / 4 2 ) .

/ . . .



A/44/783
English
Page 6

further action of States in the fic:d of the freeaing and reduction of
military budgets!

2. Nti of these principles, as annexed, and decides to bring
them to the attention of Member States and of the Conference on Disarmament as
useful guidelines for further action in the fic!4 of the freeaing and
reduction of military h&qet.a~

3. Re the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-sixth session a progress report on the implementation of the present
roao.lut*onr

4. Q&W to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth
session the item entitled “Reduction of military budgets”,

ANNEX

1. Concerted efforts should be made by all States, in particular by those
States with the largest military arsenals and by the appropriate negotiating
fOWJll8, with the objectSve of concluding international agreements to freeze
and reduce military budgets, including adequate verification measures
acceptable to all pa. ties. Such agreement8 should contribute to genuine
reductions of armed fOrCeS and arm?jne.ts  of States parties, with the aim of
strengthening international peace and security at lower levels of armed forces
and armaments. DefLnite agreements on the freezing and reduction of military
expenditures are assuming special importance and should be reached within the
shortest period of time *n order to contribute to the curbing of the arms
race, alleviate international tensions and increase the possibilities of
reallocation of resources now being used for military purposes to economic and
social development, particularly for the benefit of the developing countrioa.

2. All efforts in the field of the freezing and reduction of military
expenditures should take into account the principles and purposes of the
Charter of the United Nations and the reievsnt paragraphs of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, s/

3. Pending the conclusion ot agreement8 to freeze and reduce military
expenditures, 011 States, in particular the mcst heavily armed States, should
exercise self-reatrainc ii1 ;cheir military oxpenditurea.

4. The reduction of military expenditures on a mutually agreed basis should
be implemented gradually and in a balanced manner, either on a percentage or
on an absolute basis, GO as to ensure that no individual State or group of

_.------1

51 Resolution S-1012.

/ . . .



A/44/783
English
Page 7

States may obtain advantages over others at any stage, and without prejudice
to the right of all States to undiminished security and sovereignty and to
undertake the necessary measures of self-defence.

5. While the freezing aa,; reduction of military budgets is the
responsibility of all States, to be implemented in stages in accordance with
the principles of greatest responsibility, the process should begin with those
nuclear-weapon States with the largest military arsenals and the biggest
military expenditures, to be followed immediately by other nuclear-weapon
States and militarily significant States. This should not prevent other
States from initiating negotiations and reaching agreements on the balanced
reduction of their respective military budgets at any time during this process,

6. Human and material resources released through the reduction of military
expenditures should be devoted to economic and social development,
particularly for the benefit of the developing countries.

7. Meaningful negotiations on the freezing and reduction of military budgets
would require that all parties to such negotiations have accepted and
implemented transparency and comparability. The elaboration of agreed methods
of measuring and comparing military expenditures between specified periods of
time and between countries with different budgeting systems would be
required. To this end States should utilize the reporting system adopted by
the General Assembly in 1980. fi/

a. Armaments and military activities that would be the subject of physical
reductions within the limits provided for in any agreement to reduce military
expenditures will be identified by every State party to such agreements.

9. The agreements to freeze and reduce military expenditures should contain
adequate and efficient measures of verification, satisfactory to all parties,
in order to ensure that their provisions are strictly applied and fulfilled by
all States parties. The specific methods of verification or other compliance
procedure should be agreed upon in the prccess of negotiation depending upon
the purposes, scope and nature of the agreement.

10. Unilateral measures undertaken by States concerning fhe freezing and
reduction of military expenditures, especially when they are followed by
similar measures adopted by other States on the basis of mutual example, could
contribute to favourable conditions for the negotiation and conclusion of
international agreements to freeze and reduce military expenditures.

11. Confidence-building measures could help to create a political climate
conducive to the freezing and reduction of military expenditures. Conversely,
the freezing and reduction of military expenditure could contribute to the
increase of confidence among States.

61 See A/35/479.

/ l l .



A/44/783
Enqliah
Page 8

12. The United Nations should play a central role in orienting, stimulating
and initiating negotiations on freeaing and reducing military expenditures,
and all Member States ahould co-operate with the Organisation  and among
themselves, with a view to solving the problems implied by this process.

13. The freezing and reduction of military expenditures may be achieved, as
appropriate, on a global, regional or subregional level, with the agreemeci.  of
all States concerned.

14. The agreements on the freeaillg and reduction of military budgets should
be viewed in a broader perspective, includ’.ng respect for and implementation
of the recurity system of the United Nations, and be interrelated with other
measures  of disarmament, within the context of progress towards general and
complete disarmament under effective international control. The reduction of
military budgets should therefore be complementary to agreements on the
limitation of armaments and disarmament and should not be considered as a
substitute for such agreements.

15. The adoption of the above principles should be regarded as a means of
facilitating meaningful negotiations on concrete agreements on the freezing
and reduction of military budgets,

B

arv bud-

The General Asse.g&& #

W_glcoming the encouraging progress achieved in arms limitations and
disarmament,

&&~g that further progress in disarmament negotiations could also lead
to reductions in military expenditures,

Stressinq that increased information on military matters is an important
prerequisite for achieving agreements on the reduction of armed forces,

Recalling tk?t an international system for the standardized reporting of
military expenditures has been introduced in pursuance of General Assembly
resolution 351142 B of 12 December 1980, and that national reports on military
expenditures have been received from a number of Member States belonging to
different geographic regions and having different budgeting and accounting
system23,

Convinced that more transparency and comparability could be reached
through broader participation in the standardized system of the United Nations
for reporting military expenditures,

/ . . *



A/44/783
English
Page 9

1. m that transparency requires also agreed methods of
measuring and comparing military expenditures between specified periods of
time and between countries with different budgeting syrtemst

2. mv cm all states  to make use of the reporting
system adopted by the General Assembly;

3. peciQhp  to include in the provis ional  agenda of i ts  forty-sixth
session an item entitled “Transparency and reduction of military budgets”.

-B-B-


