







































UNITED
NATIONS

A

General Assembly
Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.40
14 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 28

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA

Algeria, Bangladesh, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Nigeria, Philippines, Senegal, Somalia, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Republic of

Tanzania and Zimbabwe: draft resolution

Support for the work of the Commission against Apartheid in Sports

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions on the boycott of apartheid in sports and in
particUlar resolution 32/105 M of 14 December 1977 by which it adopted the
International Declaration against Apartheid in Sports and resolution 40/64 G of
10 December 1985, the annex to which contains the International Convention against
Apartheid in Sports,

Having considered the report of the Commission against Apartheid in Sports ~I
and the relevant sections of the report of the Special Committee against
Apartheid, 1/

1. Takes note of-the report of the Commission against Apartheid in Sports;

2. Calls upon those States which have signed the Convention to ratify it and
also calls upon other States to accede to it as soon as possible;

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 47 (A/44/47).

~I Ibid., Supplement No. 22 (A/44/22).

89-28543 1664Z (E) / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.40
. English

Page 2

3. Commen.ds those Governments, organizations and individual sportsmen and
women which have taken action in accordance with the Register of Sports Contacts
with a view to achieving a total isolation of apartheid in sports;

4. Requests the Special Committee to continue issuing the Register of Sports
Contacts with South Africa;

5. Calls upon those international sports organizations and federations which
have not yet expelled South. Africa or suspended its membership to do so without
further delay;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Commission against
Apartheid in Sports with all needed assistance.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


