
















































UNll-ED
NATJONS

A
Generai Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/749
21 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 90

WORLD SOCIAL SITUATION

Report of the Third Committee

Rauoorteur: Mr. Wilfried GROLIG (Federal Republic of Germany)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled "World social situation" and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item jointly with items 91, 92, 93, 97, 99, 101,
102 and 113 at its 12th to 20th, 30th and 37th meetings, on 18 to 20. 23 to 26
October and 2 and 9 November 1989. An account of the Committee's discussion is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/44/SR.12-20,  30 and 37).

3. The Committee had before it the 1989 Revort on the World Social Situation
(ST/ESA/213-E/CN.5/1989/2).  11

4. At the 12th meeting, on 18 October, the Director-General of the United Nations
Office at Vienna and the Director of the Social Development Division made
introductory statements (see A/C.3/44/SR.12).

11 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.89.1V.2.

89-29572 0234P (E) / . . .



A/44/749
English
Page 2

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPO”ALS

5 . At the 30th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of Yugoslavia
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/44/L.13),  entitled “Popular participation in
i ts  VaiiouS forms as  an important factor  in developmbnt  and i n  the fu l l  realiZatiOn
of all human tights”, sponsored by A&,$&& Bangladesh, SJ&m Colotiel

rus. Eta:&,  t h e  ,Ge.rman  Democratic-.-,  t h e  Libyan
~Mbdscren~c,.-YaKix~..~un.  the philipnines.  Polanda  Romania
Sri Lan& and -la. ie. SuLseqAently,  M joined in sponsoring the’ draft
resolqltion.

6 , ?c its 37th meeting, on 9 November, the Committee adopted draft resolutinn
A1C.31441L.13  without a  votct  (see  para. 17,  draft  resolution I ) .

B. b.aft regplution  A/C. 3/4W

7 . At  the  30t' .dting, o n  2  Nmerber, the representative of the German
Democratic Republic introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/44/L.14),  entitled “Social.
welfare, development and science and technology”, sponsored by Algeria, Bulgaria,

.
the  Brahmsai.a_n S?e~L!z.t-.SaMis.t~Cuba,~ , the OermaB
S>_e_m.c.~b$i~-_Rap.~~~~c~.-~rmn_ny,  the Federal  Rep! of  B Hu oarv# Ix~.-&l.sn_B,
RQrnaniQ , the Ukreinipn &yiet Socialist Republic and X~go:levia.

8. At the 37th meeting, on 9 November, the representative of the German
Democratic Republic made a stateme-+ in the course of which he orally revised
draft resolution A1C.31441L.14  by eting operative paragraph 4, which read as
fol lows:

“I-naieE the Commission for Social Davelopment to start elaborating
criteria for a humane, moral and social evaluation of scientific and
technological progress”.

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A1C.31441L.14,  as
oral ly  revised, without a vote (see para. 17,  draft  resolution II ) .

10. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement (see A/C.3/44/SR.37).

11. At the 30th meeting, on 2 November, the ropresentative of the Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , on behalf also of Poland, in’:roduced  a draft resolution
(A/C.3/44/L.16),  e n t i t l e d “ldiievement  o f  s o c i a l  ju!:tice".

12. At .ts 31th meeting, on 9 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/4r,'L.16  without a vote (see para, 17,  draft  resolution III ) .

/ . . .



A/44/749
English
Page 3

13. At the 30th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of Malaysia, on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77,
introduced a  draft  resolution (A/C,3/44/L.  24), ent i t led  “Wol  ld social  s i tuation” .

14. At the 37th  meet ing,  on 9 Novamber, the representative of the United States of
America made a statement.

15. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A1C.31441L.24 by a
recorded vote of 114 to 1, with 22 abstentions (see para. 17,  draft  resolution IV) .
The voting was as follows: .2/

hl-.f_aYQu  : Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Boiivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byolorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile,  China, Colombia, C6te d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominic4  In Republic, Ecuador, Egypt El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethi0;J.i  h, Fiji, Gabon,  Gambia, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Tnc‘.-.iesia,  Iran <Islamic
Republic  of ), Iraq,  Jamdica, Jotdun, 11 wait ,  Lao People ’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Leso$.h(, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascer, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, ,~on401ia,  Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, 3man, Pahsqtan,  Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Philippines, Po.and, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,  Suriname,  Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, To,;a,  Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Social st
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aga_inyt : United States of America.

Allsta.ini.n.gz Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal  Republic  of ,  Greece, Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel ,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland,

z/ The representative of Italy subsequently indicated that, had he been
present, he wouAd have abstained. The representatives of the Congo, Costa Rica,
Guinea, Kenya, Nicaragua, and Peru subsequently indicated that, had they been
present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A/44/749
English
Page 4

16, After  the adoption of the  draft resolution, the representatives of France (on
behalf of the States members of the Europeau Economic Community), tic$nn, New
Zealand, Norway (also on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Sweden) and Canada
made st.atements.

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

17. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption Of the
fol lowing draft  resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

w its  reso lu t i ons  34/152 of 17 December 1979, 37/55 o f
3 December 1982, 38124  of 22 November 1983 a n d  40/99 of 13 December 1985,

Wing not& of Economic and Social Council resolution 1983131 of
27 May 1983 and decision 1984/131  of 24 May 1984, as well as o f Commission on
Human Rights resolution 1989/14  of  2 March 1989, 91

w that popular participation in all its various forms
constitutes an important factor in socio-economic development and in the full
realization of all human rights and the dignity of the human person,

1. Xaym Governments, the concerned specialized  agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system and the retievant non-governmental
organizations that have not yet done so to transmit to the Secretary-General
their comments on the study on popular participation in its various forms as
an important factor in development. and in the full realisation  of all human
rights i “1.1

2. l&cc\~_e$-Q the Commission on Human Rights to continue to consider at
its  forty-s ixth and, if desired by the Commission, at its forty-seventh,
forty-eighth and forty-ninth sessions, the question of popular participation
in its various forms as an important factor in the full realization of all
human riqhts, and to inform the General Assembly at its forty-eighth  session,
through the Economic and Social Council, of  the results  of t:lat conside.  rt ion;

41 E/CN.4/1985/10  and Add.1 and 2.

/ . . .



A / 4 4 / 7 4 3
English
Page 5

3. C.@cJ,&.a  to continue the consideration of this question at its
forty-eighth session, in the context of the i tem relating to the world social
s ituation, under the sub-item entitled “Popular participation in its various
forms as an important factor in development and in the full realization of all
human r iqhts” ,

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

plczf;lng  that  sc ienti f ic  and technological  progress  is  an impcttant  factor
in the social and economic development of society,

BanffiIw the Declaration on Social Progress and Development, which was
proclaimed by the General Assembly in its resolution 2542 (XXIV) of
11 December 1969, in which States were called upon to share equitably
scientific and technological advances, to  intensi fy  international  co-operation
in the field and to use science and technology for the benefit of the social
development of society,

Beaffirmi.&~  the Declaration on the Use of Scientific and
Technological Progress in the Interests of Peace and for the Benefit of
Mankind, which was proclaimed by the General Assembly in its resolution
3384 (XXX) of 10 November 1975, in which all States were called u;ron  to
promote international co-operation to ensure that the results of scientific
and technological developments were used in the interests of strengthening
international peace and security, freedom and independence, and also fox the
purpose of the economic and social development of peoples and the realization
of human rights in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

CQQQ.ider.ing that implementation of those Declarations will contribute to
the social and economic development of peoples and international co-operation
in the interests  of  sc ienti f ic  and technological  proqress,  as  wel l  as  to  the
strengthening of peace,

@~ph,n&j,Dq  that international co-operation among States for the
promotion of scientific and technological progress is in the interest of the
social and economic development of all peoples,

t&.nu_i.D~9d  that, in a time of rapid sciontif ic and technological progress,
the resources of mankind and the work of scientista make an important
contribution to the peaceful economic and social development of nations and to
the improvement of the livinq standards of all peoples,

Aware  that  technical  co-operation, including the possibi l i ty  of  transfer
of technology, is one of the ways of achieving better social progress in
developing countries,

/ . . .



A/44/749
English
Page 6

1. CaX;LJr.-upon  all States to encourage co-operation to ensure scientific
and technological  progress  for  the welfare  of  the ir  peoples ,  as  well  as  o f  all
human beings and their social and ectinomic  development and to contribute to
the promction of economic developm,$nt and the elimination of grave social
problems in the world;

2. S.tre.s.stts  the necessity of making scientific and technological
progress a major aspect of the implementation process of fundamental civil and
pol i t ical ,  economic , social  and cultural human rights in their entirety, as
laid down in the International Covenants on Human Rights; 5/

3. Cells-upon  all  G0vernment.s  to  make every ef fort  to  use sc ienti f ic
and technological achievements for the promotion of peaceful social and
economic development and to prevent their misuse to the disadvantage of human
beings;

4 . &ov.ifeR  the Commission for Social Development, in its discussion of
the world social situation, to pay increasing attention to the effects of
science and technology on the processes of social welfare and development;

5. RQQU,Q.S~S the Secretary-General, when elaborating the next report on
the world social situation, to take due account of the effects of sciencs and
technology on processes of social welfare and development on the basis of
available informAtion from Governments and from orqaniaations of the United
Nations system;

6. R9.qksPta  the Secretary-Gener,l  or interested Governments to consider
convening in the near futurs, within existing reeourcesr  a scqina;:  of experts
on the effects of science and technology on social welfare and development.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIX

ThQ  Goneral Acgembly,

Rocelllnq its resolution 42/49 of 30 November 1987 as well as Economic
and Social Council resolutions 1988146 o f 27 May 1988 and 1989171 o f
24 May 19%9..

Bearing in m i n d  that . , in accordance with the Declaration on Social
Progress and Development, fj/ social progress and development shall be founded
on respect for the diqnity and value  of the human person and shell ensure the
promotion of human rights and social justice,

51 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

61 Goner,al  Assemi)  ly rt7!solution 2542 (XXIV) .

/ . . .



A/44/749
English
Page 7

&.nying~d  that more extensive international and regional co-operation is
important for promoting social progress at the national level,

WI& of the Guiding Principles for Developmental Social Welfare
Policies and Programmes in the Near Future, 7/

p~~nu&&  of the importance of taking measures to ensure co-ordination
within the United Nations system in order to develop a comprehensive approach
to developmental social welfare, including better integrated and mutually
supportive economic and social development policies, aimed at the achievement
o f  so c ia l  jus t i ce ,

1, $&&&ars that the common purpose o f the international community
must be to forge from varied economic, social  and pol it ical  condit ions a
global environment of sustained development, full enjoyment of human rights
and fundamental freedoms, and sccial justice and peace;

2. Bamal;as.  that  socia l  just ice  is  one of  the most  important  goals  of
social progress;

3 . BaefFtr_ms  the importance of co-operation among countries in
promoting a climate conducive to the achievement by individual countries of
the goals of development and social justice and progress;

4. wrp. that such co-dyeration should continue to be a major focus
of activities of the United Nations in accordance with the principles of the
Charter of the United Nations)

5. Cddn...up~n  Mmber States, in elaborating their  national  pol icy in
the field of social development,, to take into consideration the importance of
ach iev ing  soc ia l  jus t i ce  f o r  ally

6. Ef&~~~n_n&.  that the Secretary-General, in preparing studies and
reports on social problems and, in particular, the raport on the world social
s ituation, should examine questions of the realization  of social justice and
ways in which it could be achieved;

7. BctguesLs  the Commission for Social Development to continue to
consider t.ho question of achieving social justice at. its next regular session,

21 E/CONF.  8011.0, chap. III.

/ 0 . .



A/44/749
Engliah
Page 8

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

RRG;nl.liag its resolutions 1392 (XIV) of 20 November 1959, 2542 (XXIV)  of
11 December 1969, 40198 and 40/100  of 13 December 1985, 42149 of
30 November 1987 and 43/113  of 8 December 1988, as well as Economic and Social
Council resolutions 1907/39, 1987/40, 1987146 and 1987/52 of 28 May 1987,
1989/72 of 24 May 1989 and 1989/113 of 28 July 1989,

B.R~j,ng...inmiDd  the objective of improving the well-being of the world’s
population on tne basis of the full participation of all members of society in
the process of develcpment  and the fair  distribution to them of the benefits
tharef rom, and recognizing that the pace of development in the developing
countries should be accelerated substantially in order to enable them to
achieve this  object ive , especially in meeting the basic neods for food,
housing, education, employment and health care.

Conr;@rn~d  at the worsening economic situation of the d8V8lOping
countries, part icularly  that  of  the least  d8V8lOp8d countries ,  including a
signif icant decl ine in l iving condit ions, the  p e r s i s t e n c e  a n d  i n c r e a s e  o f
widespread poverty in a large number of countries and the decrease of the main
social and economic indicators of those countries,

Conscious that each country has the sovereign right freely to adopt t.he
economic and social system that it doems  the most appropriate and that each
Government. has the primary role in ensuring the social progress and wel’l being
of  tha people ,

Convinced of the urgent need to eradicate policies and practices that.
hinder social  proyress, including racism and racial discrimination,  jn
particular apartheid,

Convinced algo of the crucial need to eradicate dangerous t.rends nntl
h&its t.hat.  dobi 1 i t.i+te individuals and incCrpncit.at.e  society, in part,iculi\r
drug at~usf! a n d  i l l i c i t  t r a f f i c k i n g ,

Hearing in mind t.htt irnport:;lncn  of the 1909 Report;  on the World Soci&l
S i tuat ion  81 f o r  incroas.iing  nwaronoss  o f  the  cldvanco~  made t owards  t.hn goills
o f  s o c i a l  progross anal b e t t e r  st,nncli\rds o f  l i v i n g , establ ishod in the Chnrt.cr
o f  the llnitod  Ndtions, au well as of ’  the 0bst:;rcle.s t.o further progress,

81 ST/ESh/213--E/(:N.S/19H9/2  (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.BY.IV.1).

/ . . .



A/44/749
English
Page 9

Selieving that there is A  need for greater efforts hy the United Nationa
system to study and disseminate data on the existing wo**ld  social situation,
in particular in the developing countries,

Baaring in mind the important contribution of tho ~~&O_..R~~QX~._QL.~~
WQra$.. sQ.f&lm Sit\a@&iQn  to the preparation of an international development
strategy for the fourth United Nations development decade,

Taking...xlo,ta  of the deliberation on the question of the world social
situation by the Commission for Social Development at ik,s thirty-first session
and by the Economic and Social Council at its first regular session of 1989,

CQnQe~nad  over certain ahortcomingc in the J$&.$Lwrt  Q&..fhQ.!!fQrad
hCif3l  .sitU.atiQXl,

1. Takea...noto  of the 1989..  Re~2r.t  .s?n. .tha, warl.d...Srcc.iraL  S.i.tust kona
including tho information on the cr it ical  social  situtition in Afr ica as
provided in the annex to the report)

2. Urge.8 the timely issue of future reports on the world social
situation in order to allow the Commission for Saci. Development to consider
the report;

3. NQtaS  .wit;h d@flp..cQnm$rJl  the continuing deterioration of the economic
anA social  s ituation in the davel,oping  countries ,  in  particular  that  of  the
least developed countries, as well au of the low-income countrieat

4 . N~toa .a1mwifh dlesp vmarn that the eituatlon fac@d by the
developing countries has been woraened hy sharp fluctu*.tions  in exchange
rat.635, high roal  rates  of  intereat , f luctuations in cammodity prices ,  a
seriouu deteriorat ion in  the terms of  trade of deve%oping countr ies ,  increased
pro te c t i on i s t  pressurc)s, the net transfer of resources from developing
countr ios, crushing debt burdenu, the restr ict ive  adjcstment  process  dsmandod
hy financial and development institutiona, the  decl ine in of f ic ial  development
assistance  in real terms and the severe inadequacy  of resources exper:enced  by
multilateral development and financial inatitutionsr

!i . Notes  furthor w i t h  clwp concvrn t h e  c r i t i c s 1  s o c i a l  situation  i n
Africe resulting from structural imbalnncea ant!i  weaknesses of the African
economy and a hostile international econo;,,ir: environment, in spite of the
efforts of the Governments of African countries to u,ldnrtake measurea, with
the support of the international communl+y, to stabilize  and adjust their
economies f

6 . Hedff irmg the pr;nciI?‘les end object.ivoa  of the Declaration on Social

/ . . .



A/ 141749
Enql iah
Page 10

Progress and Development :!! and calls for their effective realization  as A
m e a n s  o f  a t t a i n i n g  a  m o r e  equ i tab le  wovld aoclal  s i t u a t i o n )

7. C&;Us  upon all Meljlber  States to promote economic development and
social progress by the formuiation And implementation of an interrelated set
of pol icy measures  to  ach!.evtt  the goals  and objectj,ves  establ ished within the
framework of national  plans and prior it ies  for  emp!-yment, educat ion,  heelth,
nutr i t i on ,  houning facilitiss,  c r ime  preventicn, Lhj wel l -being of  chi ldren,
equal  opportunit ies  for  the disabled and the aging,  ful l  part ic ipat ion of
youth in the development process And full integration and participation of
women in development;

8. uam the reiavant organs, organizationa and bodies of the
United Nations system to mobilize  the necessary resources to undertake
measures aimed at improving social conditions world widet

9. Bffi.xm~ the request of the Economrc and Social Council in
paragraph 2 of  i ts  resolution 1989172  for  the SecraLnry-General to  submit  an
expanded version of the 19E.3 .RQBQ.r.t.....,n.tb.~..lsnr~S9_cLinl-S~,t\hpf;ljgn  to the
Economic and Social Council at its first regular session of 1990 and to meet
the other requests  mAd0 iii paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same reaolutiont

10. Re.qumM th Locretary-Goneral  to ctintinue  monitoring the world
social situation in depth on a regular basis and to submit the next full
report on the world social situation, through the Economic and Social Council,
to the General Assembly in 1993, for  consideration at  i ts  forty-eighth
session, and ~180 requests thz+ Secretary.*General  to submit an interim report
to the Assembly, through the Commission for Social Development and the
Economic and Social Council, e v e r y  t w o  years  i n  t h e  i n t e r v e n i n g  per i od ,
starting in 19911

11. A1.s.~ requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary
arrengements for the wider disaemAnAtion of the reports on the world aociA1
situationl

12. Invi.t,vs  thv orqarm, org:.nizations  and bodies of the United Natjons
syst.em  to co,-operate  fully with the Secretary-General in the preparation of
future reports by mnking avai lnhlo all relevant information pertaining to
t.ho  i r respective AI’OA~ of cmpot.orwoi

13. Dec.iJvs t.o inoiudo  thu i!:om e n t i t l e d  “ W o r l d  social s i t u a t i o n ”  i n  the
provisional  Aqonda of  i ts  forty-fifth  session for  the purpose of  considering
the expanded version  of the 1989 Rvport.  on the WQr1.d SQci#l ,Sit.Ubti.Qn,  of its
forty-sixth session  for the purpose of considering the interim report, And of
i ts  forty-,oight..h  session for  t.ho purpose of  ccihsidering the next  ful l  report
i n  19911.

91 Hesolution 254% (XXIV),


