
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
, I GENERAL

A / 4 5 / 6 8 1
15 November 1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 112

ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN ECONOMIC AND OTHER INTERESTS WHICH
ARE IMPEDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE
GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES
IN TERRITORIES UNDER COLONIAL DOMINATION AND EFFORTS TO
ELIMINATE COLONIALISM, APARTHEID AND RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

IN SOUTHERN AFRICA

Reoort of the FourthCgmmittee

Ranoorteut: Mr. James KEMBER (New Zealand)

1. At its l!rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
forty-fifth session the item entitled:

"Activities of foreign economic and other interests which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples in Territories under colonial domination and efforts to
eliminate colonialism, aoartheid and racial discrimination in southern Africa".

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Committee.

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 2nd to 6th meetings, between
2 and 12 October (see A/C.4/45/SR.2-6).

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the Fourth Committee decided without
objection, in accordance with established practice, to consider, in conjunction
with agenda item 112, chapter VI of the report of the Special Committee relating to
military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in territories under their

90-30816 0425P (El / . . .



h/45/601
English
Page 2

administration which might be impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. A/

4 . At the same meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee made a statement
in which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Specirl  Committee
during 1990 and drew attention to chapter V of the report of the Committee relating
to item 112, 21 as weli as the relevant documentation (h/AC.109/1020,  1024, 1028,
1032, 1034 and 1035). The Rapporteur o; the Special Committee also gave an account
of the Cori-mittee’s consideration, in pursuance of paragraph 13 of General Assembly
decision 44/425 of 11 December 1999, of the question of military activities and
arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration which
might be impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and drew attention to chapter VI of
the report of the Committee, 11 as well as the relevant documentation
(A/AC.109/1018,  1027 and 1030).

5 . The general debate on the item took place at the 3rd to 6th meetings, between
8 and 12 October.

6 . At its 3rd meeting, on 8 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request for
hearing to Mr. J. A .  Gonzalez-Gonzales (h/C.4/45/5). At the same meeting,
M r .  Gonzalez-Gonsilez  made a statement.

7, At its 6th meeting, on 12 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in document A/45/23 (Part IV), chapter V, paragraph 11, by a
recorded vote of 79 to 10, with 21 abstentions (see para. 9). 21 The voting was as
f o l l ows :  a/

In favourr Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Libyan Arab

L/ S e e  A / 4 5 / 2 3  ( P a r t  I V ) . To be incorporated in Official Records of the
General Assembly, Fortv-fifth Session, Sumlemnt  No, 2 (A/45/23).

21 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Israel, Italy (on behalf of States
members of the European Community), New Zealand, Papua New Guinea- Sweden (on
behalf also of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway), Uruguay and Vanuatu.

31 Subsequently, the delegations of Botswana and Turkey informed the
Secretariat that they had intended to abstain in the vote. The delegations of
Trinidad and Tobago and Qatar informed the Secretariat that, had they been present
at the time of the voting, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution,

/ * . .



A / 4 5 / 6 0 1
English
Page 3

Jarnahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaarnhique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua
New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saudi
Arabia, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Yemen,  Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

-1 Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Portugal, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

m-r Australia, A;rstria,  Bulgaria, Canada, Csechoslovakia,  Denmark,
Finland, Greece, Hunqary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein,
New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Romania, Spain, Swaailand,
Sweden.

0. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft decision contained
in document A/45/23 (Part IV), chapter VI, paragraph 11, by a recorded vote of 77
to 12, with 22 abstentions (see pare. 10) .  41 The voting was as  fo l lowsr 51

-favourr Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbado-, Benin, Botswana, Braail,  Brunei
I)arussalam,  Burkina Faso, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Cotnoros,  Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Repubic of),  Iraq, Jamaica,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Malaysia, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco,  Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepa.‘.,  Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Phil ippines, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

41 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Israel, Italy  (on behalf  o f  States
members of the European Community), New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Sweden (on
behalf also of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway), Uruguay and Vanuatu.

51 Subsequently, the delegation of Botswana informed the Secretariat that it
had intended to abstain in the vote. The delegations of Trinidad and Tobago and
Qatar informed the Secretariat that, had they been present at the time of the
voting, they would have voted in favour of the draft decision.

/ . . .



A/45/601
Eng l i sh
Page 4

As3.bla: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

-8 Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Central African Republic, Chad,
Congo, Caechoslovakia,  Denmark, Finland, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Romania, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Turkey.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

9. The Fourth Committee recommends to (.&a General Assembly the adoption of the
f o l l o w i n g  d r a f t  r e s o l u t i o n :

FAtofe f
.

n ther 1’ests which
me imD>edino  t h e  imulementation  o f  the  DeclRrg.tion  on
t h e  ';rantia n dQuntries
? _eoplesion ang
efforts to  e l iminate colonial ism.  aDartheid  and racia l

discriminati  n is

The GeneralAssembly,

Bavina  considered the item entitled "Activities of foreign ecouomic and other
interests which are impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories under colonial
domination and efforts to eliminate colonialism, aoartheid  and racial
d i sc r im ina t ion  in  sou thern  Afr i ca” ,

Pavina  examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, 6/

Recallinq its resolutions 1514 (Xv) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
1541 (Xv) of 15 December 1960, and the Plan of Action for the Full Implementation
of the Declaration, contained in the annex to Assembly resolution 351118 of
11 December 1980, as well as all other relevant resolutions adopted by the Assembly
on this  subject ,  including,  in particular, resolution 44184  of 11 December 1989,

Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their
adminlstration  and to protect the human and natural resources of those Territories
against abuses,

61 A/45/23  (Part IV), chap. V.

/ . . .



A/45/601
English
Page 5

Reaffirming that those economic and other activities which impede the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and  obs t ruc t  e f for t s  a imed  a t  t h e  e l i m i n a t i o n  of  c o l o n i a l i s m ,
l?partheid  and racial discrimination in southern Africa and other colonial
Territories are in direct violation of the rights of the inhabitants and of the
principles of the Charter and all relevant resolutions of the United Nations,

Reaffirmina further that the natural resources of all Territories under
colonial and racist domination are the heritage o f t h e  p e o p l e s  o f  t h o s e  T e r r i t o r i e s
and that the depletive exploitativa of those resources by foreign economic
interests  const itutes  a direct  violat ion of  the rights  of the  peoples  and of  the
principles of the Charter and all relevant resolutions of the United Nations,

m.rina in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries and
of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the
Organization of African Unity,

Condemninq  the intensi f ied act ivit ies  of  those fore ign economic ,  f inancial  and
other interests that continue to exploit the natural and human resources of the
colonial Territories and to accumulate and repatriate huge profits to the detriment
of the interests of the inhabitants, thereby impeding the realization by the
peoples of the Territories of their iegitimate aspirations for self-determination
and independence,

Stronalvdemninq  the collaboration by certain countries with the racist
minority rigime of South Africa in the nuclear field, which, by providing that
rigime with nuclear equipment and technology, enables  i t  to  develop nuclear  and
military capabilities and to become a nuclear Power, thereby strengthening its
abhorrent system of aoartheid,

Concerned about any foreign economic, financial and other activities which
continue to deprive the indigenous populations of colonial Territories in the
Caribbean, the Pacific Ocean and other regions of their rights over the wealth of
their  countries , and concerned that the inhabitants of those Territories continue
to suffer from a loss of land ownership as a result of the failure of the
administer ing Powers  concerned to  restr ict  the sale  o f  land to  foreigners ,  despite
the repeated appeals of the General Assembly,

w of the continuing need to mobilize world public opinion against the
involvement of foreign economic, financial and other interests in the exploitation
of natural and human resources, which impedes the independence of colonial
Territories and the elimination of racism, particularly in South Africa, and
emphasizing the importance of action by local authorities, trade unions, religious
bodies, academic institutions, mass media, solidarity movements and other
non-governmental organizations, as well as individuals, in applying pressure on
transnational  corporations to refrain from any investment or activity in South
Africa, in encouraging a policy of systematic divestment of any financial or other
interest in corporations doing business with South Africa and in counteracting all
forms of collaboration with the aoartheid r6gilne,

/ . . .



A/45/601
English
Page 6

1, &affirm the inal ienable  r ight  of  the  peoples  of dependent  Territor ies
to self-determination and independence and to the enjoyment of the natural
re source s  o f  t he i r  Terr i t o r i e s , as well as their right to dispose of those
resources in their best interests2

2. Mate% that any administering or occupying Power that deprives the
colonial peoples of the exercise of their legitimate rights over their natural
resources or subordinates the rights and interests of those peoples to foreign
economic and financial interests violates the solemn obligations it has assumed
under the Charter of the United Nations2

3. Peaffirmg  that ,  by their  depletlve  exploitat ion of  natural  resources ,  the
continued accumulation and repatriation of huge profits and the use of those
prof i ts  for  the  enrichment  of  foreign sett lers  and the perpetuation of  colonial
domination and racial  discrimination in the Territories ,  the act ivit ies  of  foreign
economic, f inancial  and other interests  operat ing at  present  in  the colonia l
Territories constitute a major obstacle to political independence and racial
equality , as well as to the enjoyn,ent of the natural resources of those Territories
by the  indigenous  inhabitants;

4. Condemns those activit’es of foreign economic and other interests in the
colonial Territories which are impeding the implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the efforts to
eliminate colonialism, aoarthc  ’ I and racial discrimination;

5. StronqJy  condemns the collaboration of certain countries, in particular
Israel , with the racis t  minority  regime of  South Afr ica in  the  nuclear  f ie ld and
calls upon those and all other Governments concerned to refrain from supplying  that
regime,  direct ly  or indirect ly ,  with instal lat ions, equipment or material that
might enable it to produce uranium, plutonium and other nuclear materials, reactors
or military equipment:

6. Stronalv condemns the  col laborat ion with  the  racis t  minori ty  rigime  of
South Africa  of  certa in  countr ies  as  wel l  as  transnational  corporations that
continue to make new investments in South Africa and supply the rigime with
armaments, nuclear technology and all other materials that are likely to buttress
it and thus aggravate the threat to world peace;

7. Calls unon  all States to take urgent, effective measures to terminate all
collaboration with the racist regime of South Africa in the political, economic,
trade, military and nuclear fields and to refrain from entering into other
relations with that rigime in violation of the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations and of the Organization of African Unity;

8. Calls once auain upon all Governments that have not yet done so to take,
in accordance with the relevant provisions of its resolution 2621 (Xxv) of
12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other measures in respect of their
nationals and the bodies co:yorate  under their jurisdiction that own and operate
enterprises in colonial Territories that are detrimental to the interests of the
inhabitants of those Territories, in order to put an end to such enterprises and to

I

/ . . . 64



A/45/681
English
Page 7

prevent new investments that run counter to the interests of the inhabitants of
those Territories:

9. Calls uuon those oil-producing and oil-exporting countries which have not
yet done so to take effective measures against the oil companies concerned so as to
terminate the supply of crude oil and petroleum products to the racist regime of
South Africa:

10. Reiterates that the exploitation and plundering of the marine and other
natural resources of colonial Territories by foreign economic interests, including
the activities of those transnational corporations which are engaged in the
exploitation and export of the natural resources of the Territories, in violation
of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council, are
illegal and are a grave threat to the integrity and prosperity of those Territories

11. Reiterates its resuest to all States, pending the imposition of
comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South Africa, to take legislative,
administrative and other measures, individually or collectively, as appropriate, in
order effectively to isolate South Africa politically, economically, militarily and
culturally, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly,
and encourages those Governments that have recently taken certain unilateral
sanction measures against the South African regime to take further measures:

12. Invites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations system,
having regard to the relevant provisions of the Declaration on the Establishment of
a New International Economic Order, contained in General Assembly resolution
3201 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974, and of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of
States, contained in Assembly resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, to
ensure, in particulas, that the permanent sovereignty of the colonial Territories
over their natural resources is fully respected and safeguarded;

13. Urues the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the colonial
Territories to their natural resources, as well as their right to establish and
maintain control over the future development of those natural resources, and
requests the administering Powers to take all necessary steps to protect the
property rights of the peoples of those Territories;

14. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to abolish all
discriminatory and unjust wage systems and working conditions prevailing in the
Territories under their administration and to apply in each Territory a uniform
system of wages to all the inhabitants without any discrimination:

15. Resuests the Secretary-General to undertake, through the Depzrtment  of
Public Information of the Secretariat, a sustained and broad campaign with a view
to informing world public opinion of the facts concerning the pillage of natural
resources in colonial Territories and the exploitation of their indigenous
populations by foreign economic interests:

/ . . .



A/45/601
Engl ish
Page 8

16. w to mass media, trade unions  and non-govbrnmental  organizat ions,
a s  w e l l  a s  i n d i v i d u a l s , t o  co -ord ina te  and  in tens i fy  t he i r  e f fo r t s  t o  mob i l i ae
international  public  opinion against  the  pol icy  of  the  m regime of  South
Africa and to work for the enforcement of economic and other sanctions against that
riqime and for  encouraging a  pol icy  of  systemat ic  and genuine divestment  f rom
corporations doing business in South Africar

17 I !&$m to continue to  monitor  closely  the  s i tuat ion in  the  remaining
colonial  Territories  so as  to  ensure  that  al l  economic activit ies  in  those
Territories are aimed at strengthening and diversifying their economies in the
interests of the indigenous peoples, at promoting the economic and financial
viability of those Territories and at speeding their accession to independence and,
in that connection, requests the administering Powers concerned to ensure that the
peoples  of  the Territor ies  under their  adminis trat ion are  not  exploi ted for
p o l i t i c a l , mil i tary  and other  purposes  detrimental  to  their  interestsr

18. &guests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon to
the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session.

10. The Fourth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decision;

Militarv a c t i v i t i e s  a n d  arrgngamants  bv colu Powera
in Territories under their administration w
imDedina the imDlementation of the Decluation  on the
mntina  of Independence to Colonial Countries & peooa

1. The General Assembly, having considered the chapter of the report of the
Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
relating to an item on the agenda of the Special Committee Jntitled “Military
activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their
administration which might be impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples” I/ and recalling its
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and all other relevant resolutions and
decis ions of  the United Nations relat ing to  mil i tary  act iv i t ies  in
Non-Self-Governing Territories, and conscious that military bases and installations
in the Territories concerned could constitute an obstacle to the exercise k-y the
people of those Territories of their right to self-determination, reiterates its
strong  views that existing bases and installations, which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial

z/ A/45/23 (Part IV), chap VI.

/ I . I



A/45/681
English
Page 9

Countries and Peoplee, should be withdrawn and that no further entrenchment should
be condoned.

2. In recal l ing its  resolut ion 1514 (XV) and a l l  other  relevant resolutions and
decis ions of the  United Nat ions  relat ing to  mil i tary bases an8 instal lat ions in
colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories, the General Assembly reaff irms its
strong conviction that the presence of military bases and installations in the
colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories could constitute a major obstacle to
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and that it Is the responsibility of the administering Powers
to ensure that the existence of such bases and installations does not hinder the
populations of  the  Territor ies  from exercis ing their  r ight  to  sel f -determination
and independence in conformity with the purposes and principles of the Charter of
the United Nations and the Declaration. Furthermore, aware of the  presence of
military bauee ant3  installations of the administerins  Powers concerned and other
countries  in those  Territor ies , the Assembly urges the administering Powers
concerned to continue to take all necessary measures r-k to involve those
Territories in any offensive acts or interference against other States and to
comply fully with the purposes and principles of the Charter, the Declaration and
the resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to military activities
and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration.

3. The General Assembly reiterates its condemnation of all military activities
and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration that
are detrimental to the rights and interests of the colonial peoples concerned,
especially their right to self-determination and independence. The Assembly once
again calls upon the colonial Powers concerned to terminate unconditionally such
activities and to eliminate such military ba:\es in compliance with the relevant
resolutions of the Assembly, in particular with paragraph 9 of the Plan of Action
for the Full Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in the annex to Assembly resolution
351118 of 11 December 1980.

4. The General Assembly reiterates that the colonial Territories and areas
adjacent thereto should not be used for nuclear testing, dumping of nuclear wastes
or deployment of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction.

5. The General Assembly notes with serious concern that,  in southern Africa in
general, a  cr it ical  s i tuation continues to  prevai l  as a  resul t  of  South Africa ’s
inhuman repression of the people of South Africa. The Assembly declares that the
policy of pDartheid and destabilization not only undermines the peace and stability
of the southern African region but also constitutes a threat to international peace
and security.

6. The General Assembly condemns the continued military, nuclear and intelligence
collaboration between South Africa and certain countries, which constitutes a
violation of the arms embargo imposed against South Africa by the Security Council
in its resolution 418 (1977) of 4 November 1977 and poses a threat to international
peace and security. The Assembly urges the Council to consider, as a matter of



A/45/681
English
Fag0 10

urgency, the report of the Committee established under its resolution 421 (1977) of
9 December 1977 81 and adopt further measures to widen the scope of its resolution
418 (1977) in order to make it more effective and comprehensive. The Assembly also
calls for the scrupulous observance of Security Council resolution 558 (1984) of
13 December 1984 enjoining all States to refrain from importing armaments from
South Africa. The Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard of a series of
resoluti )ns adopted by the Security Council, 91 the General Assembly, the Special
Committco on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the Special
Committoe against Aoartheid, as well as the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the
Organization of AfriLln Unity, the Commonwealth and a number of intergovernmental
and regional organizations.

7. The General Assembly considers that the acquisition of nuclear-weapon
capability by the racist rigime of South Africa, with its infamous record of
violence and aggression, constitutes  a  further ef for t  on i ts  part  to  terrorize  and
intimidate independent States in the region into submission while also posing a
threat to all mankind. The Assembly condemns the continuing support to the racist
r$gime of  South Africa in the mil i tary  and nuclear f ie lds. Xn this  context ,  the
Assembly expresses its concern at the grave consequences for rnternational  peace
and security of the collaboration between the racist regime  of South Africa and
certain Wostern Powers, YP: ael and o-.her countries in the military and nuclear
f i e l d s , It calls upon the States conceUrned  to end all such collaboration and, in
particular , to halt the supply to South Africa of equipment, technology, nuclear
materials and related training, which increases its nuclear capability.

8. The General Assembly strongly condemns the continuing collaboration of certain
countries with the racist regime in the military and nuclear fields ana expresses
its conviction that such collaboration  is in contravention of the arms embargo
imposed against South Africa under Security Council resolution 418 (1977) and
undermines international solidarity against the apartheid rigime, The Committee
thus calls for the termination forthwith of all such collaboration.

9. The General Assembly urges all Governments, the specialized agencies and other
intergovernmental organizations to provide increased material assistance to the
thousands of refugees who have been forced by the anartheid rigime’s  oppressive
policies in South Africa to flee into the neighbouring States and for the purpose
of resettlement of those who are returning.

8/ Official Re_cords of the Security Council, Thirty-fifth Year. Suonlement
f 0-r. Ju_~,--A~s~s~-a~~~t~~beb1980 I document S/14179.

91 Security Council resolution 567 (1985) of 20 June 1985, 568 (1985) of
21 June 1985, 571 (1985) of 20 September 1985, 574 (1985) of 7 October 1985,
577 (1985) of 6 December 1985, 580 (1985) of 30 December 1985, 581 (1986) of
13 February 1986, 602 (1937)  of 25 November 1987 and 606 (1987) of 23 December 1987.

/ I . .



A/45/681
English
Page 11

10. The General Assembly deprecates the continued alienation of land in colonial
T e r r i t o r i e s  f o r  mil i tary  ins ta l la t i ons , The large-scale  uti l ization of  local
economic and manpower resources for this purpose diverts resources that could be
more beneficially utiliaed  in promoting the economic development of the :erritories
concerned and 5s thus contrary to the interests of their populations.

11, The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to continue, through the
Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, an intensified campaign of
publicity with a view to informing world public opinion of the facts concerning the
military activit ies and arrangements in colonial Territories which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in Assembly resolution 1514 (XV).

12. The General Assembly requests the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report
thereon to the Assembly at its forty-sixth session.


