
















































UNITED
NATIONS

.-. .---

General Assembly Distr ,
GENERAL

A/45/744
21 Novambor 1990

ORIQINALl ENQLISD

Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 88

ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES FOR THE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIQHTS  OF POLITICAL,
MILITARY, ECONOMIC AND OTHER FORMS OF ASSISTANCE QIVEN  TO THE RACIST

AND COLONIALIST REQIME  OF SOUTH AFRICA

r t  o f  thaw

ma Mr. Mario DE LEON (Philippines)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the Qonoral Assembly, on tho
recommendation of the Qeneral Committee, decided to include in its agenda  thu itom
entitled “Adverse consequences for the enjoyment of human rights of political,
military, economic and other forms of assistance given to the racist and colonialiot
rigime of  South Afr ica” and to allocate it to tha Third Committoo.

2, The Committee considered this i tem jointly with ikerns 91, 98 and lo3 at ito 4th
to lOth, 18th,  28th, 29th and 31st meetings, on 10 to 12, 15, 16 and 24 October  and
1, 2 and 5 November 1990. An account of the Committee’s gonoral discussioxx of the
i tem is contained in the relevant suxnxn~ry records (A/C,3/45/SR.4-10).

3. For its considerc.tion  of the item, the Committee had before il. a noto by tho
Secretary-General transmitting the updated report prepared by Mr. Ahnlad  M. Khalifn,
Special Rapporteur, on the adverse consequences for the enjoyment of human rights of
po l i t i ca l ,  mi l i tary , economic and other forms of assistance given to the racist: exrd
colonialist rigime of South Africa (A/45/552).

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 8 October 1990, the Under-Secretary-Genoral for Human
Rights made an introductory statement on the item. At  i t s  6 th  m e e t i n g ,  the
Committee also heard an introduction by the Special Rapporteur on the adverse
coxxsequences for the enjoyment of human rights of political, military, economic  and
other forms of assistance given to the racist and colonialist rigimo of South Ai:ricl\
(see A/C.3/45/SR.3  and SR.6).

go-32003 0458P (E) / . . .



’ A / 4 5 / 7 4 4
English
Page I

I I . CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/45/L.4

5, At. the 18th meeting, on 24 October, the representative of SnLecme,  On
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that ai’8 members of the Qroup Of
African States, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/45/L.4)  entitled “Adverse
consequences for the enjoyment of human rights of political, military, economic and
other forms of assistance given to the racist and colonialist rigime of South
Africa” .

6, At the same meeting, the representative of Sierra Leone orally revised the
draft resolution by inserting the words “the Commission on Human Rights, the
Economic and Social Council and the Special Committee Against &&rtheid” between the
words “Minorities” and “may” in the penultimate line of operative paragraph 12.

‘I I At its 28th meeting, on 1 November, the Cor mittee  adopted the draft resolution
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 106 to 9, with 22 abstentions (see
pat-a. 9). The vol!.ng was as followsr

L!l-. f&l!& u : Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Beliae, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darrusalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet  Social ist  Republic , Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Ccte d*Ivoire,  Cuba,
Cyprus, Djibouti , Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji,  Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
tionduras, I n d i a ,  Iudon tsie, Iran (Islamic Republic  of ) ,  Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagaucar,  Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mol;golfa,  Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union 3f Soviet Socialist Republics,  United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

AgtLi_rr  at. : Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Portugal, United Kingdom of Great Britain nnd Northern Ireland and
United States of America.

Ab s tabn i_n_g : Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, De”(nark,
Finland, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Japan,
Liechtenstein, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Roman’:, Spain,
Sweden and Turkey.



A/45/744
English
Page 3

8 . After the adoption of the draft resolution statements in explanation of vote
were made by the representatives of the United States of America, Italy (on behalf
of the States members of the European Community), Iceland (also on behalf of
Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden), Canada, Japan and Turkey (see AK.31451SR.28).

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

9. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Adverse conseuuences for the enionnent of human ricrhts of political,
militarv, economic and other forms of assistance siven to the racist

and colonialist dqime  of South Africa

The General Assembly,

Recallinq its resolutions 39115 of 23 November 1984, 41195 of 4 December 1986
and 43/92 of 8 December 1988,

1. Exuresses its anureciation  to the Special Rapporteur of the Sub-Commission
on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities for his updated report
on the adverse consequences for the enjoyment of human rights of political,
military, economic and other forms of assistance given to the racist and colonialist
regime of South Africa; A/

2. Exoresses its thanks to all Governments and organisations that supplied
the Special Rapporteur with information:

3. Welcomes with satisfaction Commission on Human Rights resolution 1990122
of 27 February 1990, 21 in which the Commission invited the Special Rapporteur:

(a) To continue to update, subject to annual review, the list of banks,
transnational  corporations and other organisations assisting the racist rigime of
South Africa, giving such details regarding enterprises listed as he may consider
necessary and appropriate, including explanations of responses, if any, and to
submit the updated report, through the Economic and Social Council, to the General
Assembly at its forty-fifth session:

(b) To use all available material from other United Nations organs, Member
States, specialised agencies and other relevant sources in order to indicate the
volume, nature and adverse human consequences of the assistance given to the racist
regime of South Africa;

11 A/45/552, previously published as E/CN.4/Sub.2/1990/13  and Add.1.

21 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1990, SuPulement
No. 2. (E/1990/22), chap. II, sect, A.

/ . . .



Ai 51744
English
Pagu 4

(c) To intensify direct contacts with the United Nations Centre on
Transnational Corporations and the Centre against Aoartheia of  the Secretariat ,  with
a view to consolidating mutual co-operation in updating the reports

4 . Qtlls uggq a l l  Qovernmentst

(a) To co-operate with the Special Rapporteur in making the report even more
accurate and informative;

(b) To disseminate the updated report snd to give its contents the widest
possible  publicityt

5. w&la upon all Governments and organisations to maintain sanctions
against the racist rigime of South Africa until the total dismantlement of the
apar_t_hs!-d  system has been achieved, in conformity with the Declaration on Atmr~
and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, adopted by the General Assembly
in its resolution S-1611 of 14 December 19891

6 . &v&e,? the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection
of Minorities at its forty-third session and the Commission on Human Rights at its
forty-seventh session to consider the updated report1

7 . &qu~&~ the Secretary-General, in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 43/92, to make available to the Special Rapporteur two economists to help
him to develop his analysis and documentation on specific cases 01 special
importance I

8. Also reauaaf;B  the Secretary-General to give the Special Rapporteur all the
assistance that he may require in the exercise of his mandate, with a view to
intensifying direct contacts with the United Nations Centre on Transnational
Corporations  and the Centre against w, and to consolidating mutual
co-operation in updating his reportr

9. Purther_.reauesta  the Secretary-Qeneral  to bring the updated report of the
Special Rapporteur to the attention of Governments who&& national financial
institutions continue to deal with the’ dgime of South 4frica, and to call upon them
to provide the Special Rapporteur with any information or comments they may wish to
present on the matteri

10 I j3~qu~s-t~ the Secretary-General to contact the Government of South Africa
with a view to enabling the Special Rapporteur to undertake a visit to South Africa
on special mission within the perspective of the next update of the present report]

11. Xnvifea the Secretary-General to give the updated report of the Special
Rapporteur the widest distribution and publicity as a United Nations publication)

12. Decides to  examine at  i t s  forty-seventh sess ion,  as  e matter  of  high
pr i o r i ty , the question entitled “Adverse consequences for the enjoyment of human
r ights  o f  po l i t i ca l ,  mi l i tary , economic and other forms of assistance given to the
racist regime of South Africa”, in the light of any recommendations which the

/ . . .



A/45/744
English
Page 5

Sub-Commission on Prevention of Diecrimination and Protection of Minorities, the
Commieaion  on Human Rights, the Ecoaomia  and Social Council and the Special
Committee against Aaartheia may wish to  submit  to it,

13. Recrue that the Special Rapporteur submit hie upc¶atecI  report to the
Qeneral  Assembly  a t  i t s  f o r t y - s e v e n t h  s e s s i o n .

-m-m-


