
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

A/45/700
21 November 1990

ORIGINAL! ENGLISH

Forty- f i f th session
Agenda item 58

SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR IMPACT ON
iKTERNATIONAL  SECURITY

lie;za.rct.of  the First Committee

boporteJl:r Mr, Latbvi Modem LAWSON-BETUM  (Togo)

I . INTRODUCTION

1, The i tem entitled "Scientific and technological developments and their impact
on international security” was included in the provisional agenda of the
forty-fifth session of the General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolution
44/118 A of 15 December 1989.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the i tem in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First  Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October 1990, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 45 to 66.
At its 4th meeting, on 16 October, the First Committee decided to consider jointly
with other disarmament items agenda item 155, which was allocated to the First
Committee upon a decision of the General Assembly at its 30th plenary meeting, on
15 October. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
23rd meetings, from 15 to 30 October (see A/C,1/45/PV.3-23). Consideration of and
action on draft resolutions on those items took place between the 24th and
39th meetings, from 2 to 16 November (see A/C,1/45/PV.24-39).

4. In connection with item 58, the First Committee had before it the following
document:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the scientific and technological
d ielopments and their impact on international security (A/45/568).

90-32052 0442P (E)



A/45/780
English
Page 2

I I . CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/45/L.24  AND REV.1

5. On 31 October, Afghanistan, the Bveloru&an  Soviet Socialist ReDublic,
mnaary, India, Indonesia, Pea Sri Lanka and Wnesuelp  submitted a draft
resolution entitled “Scientific and technological developments and their impact on
international security” (A/C.1/45/L.24),  which was later also sponsored by
li!!auLLa. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of India at the
29th meeting, on 7 November.

6. On 8 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/45/L.24/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by Costa Rica. The revised
draft resolution contained the following changes:

(a) In the second preambular paragraph, “the emergence of an entirely now
c l a s s  of” was replaced by “more sophisticated weapons and new”;

(b) At the end of the fourth preambular paragraph, the phrase “and to channel
scientific and technological developments for beneficial purposes,” was added:

(c) A new sixth preambular paragraph was added, reading;

“Notinq  the results of the United Nations Conference on “New Trends in
Science and Technologyr Implications for  International Peace and Security”,
held at Sendai, Japan, from 16 to 19 April 1990, and recognising, in this
regard, the need for the scientific and policy communities to work together in
dealing with the complex implications of technological change”.

7. At its 37th meeting, on 15 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a
statement concerning the programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see
A/C.1/45/PV.37).

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.24/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 113 to 3, with 16 ahstentic  ns (see
para. 9 ) . The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, P.ustralia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Ciite  d’Tvoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of),  Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab ,Jamahiriya,  Liechtenstein, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,  Namibia, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,

/ . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 8 0
English
Page 3

Senegal, Singapore, Solomoc  Is?ands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian hrab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union
of Soviet Socialist Republico, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Acrainst;: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northsrn  Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaininq: Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Germany, Greece,
Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Turkey.

I I I . RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolution:

scientific and technoloqical  developments and their impact on
international  security

The General Assemblv,

Recalling that at its tenth special session, the f irst  special  session devoted
to disarmament, it unanimously stressed the importance of both qualitative and
quantitative measures in the process of diSa?XnaJnent,

Notina with concern the potential in technological advances for application to
military purposes, which could lead to more sophisticated weapons and new weapon
sys tem3,

Recoanizing  that scientific and technological developments can have both
civilian and military applications and that progress in science and technology for
civilian applications needs to be maintained and encouraged.

Stressing the interests of the int.ernational community in the subject and the
need to follow closely the scientific and technological developments that may have
a negative impact on the security envi.ronment and on the process of arms limitation
and disarmament, and to channel scientific and technological developments for
beneficial purposes,

Emnhasizinq  that the proposal contained in its resolution 43177 A of
7 December 1988 is without prejudice to research and developmsnt efforts being
undertaker for peaceful purposes,

/ . . .



A/45/780
English
Paqe 4.

Notinq the results of the United Rations Conference on “New Trends in Science
and Technology: Implications for International Peace and Security”, hold at
Sendai, Japan, from 16 to 19 April 1990, .i/ and recoqaizinq, in this regard, the
need for the scientific and policy communities to work together in dealing with the
complex implications of technological change,

1. Takes noLe  of the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Scientific
and technological developments and their impact on internationi  i security”; 2/

2. &llv agrees that :

(a) The international community needs to position itself better to follow the
nature and direction of technological change;

(b) The United Nations can serve as a catalyst and a cloartnq-house  for ideas
to this purpose:

3. Kauests the Secretary-Scut?ral  to  continue to  fo l low scienti f ic  and
technological developments in order to make an assessment of emerging “new
technologies” and submit to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session a
framework for technology assessment guided, inter alb, by the criteria suggested
in his report;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh session
the item entitled “Scienti f ic  and technoloqica 1 developments and their impact on
international  security” .

-----

11 See A/45/568.

21 A/45/568.


