
















































UNITED
NATIONS

A
__.___  _-_ -..-l_l_ .- _ -_ _- - .__._ - _.. -

Distr,
GENERAL

A/45/682
7 November 1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty- f i f th session
Agenda items 113 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF INDEPEND'ZNCE
TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND
THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Fourth Committee

-’ Mr. James KEMBER (New Zealand)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the Gener 1 Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
forty- f i f th session the fo l lowing items:

"113.  Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialised agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations.”

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council."

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth Committee
agenda item 113, together with chapters I and VI (sect. D! of the report of the
Economic and Social Council (A/45/3), 11 w;rich relate to the item.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 111, 113 B,:C;  12, 114 and 115, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by th.)se items would be
considered separately.

11 -Oflicial Records of the Ges*ral Assembly, Forty-fifth Session, Supplement
tloL.J  (A /45 /3 ) .

'Jo-29821 0413P iE)



A/45/602
English
Page 2

7. . The Fourth Committee considered icsms 113 and 12 at its 3rd, 7th to
15th meetings, between 8 and 25 October (see A/C.4/45/SR.3,  7-15). The general
debate on the items referred to above, including the present items.. took place at
the 8th to 14th meetings, between 17 and 25 October.

4. At the 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implemeatation  of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee Arlring 1990 and drew
attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee relating to item 113
(A/45/23 (Part  V)) 2/ containing,  inter  ala, the related draft  resolut ion
submitted by the Committee for the consideration of the Fourth Committee.

5. During its consideration of the itom, the Fourth Committee had before it the
report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraph 16 of General
Assembly resolution 44185 of 11 December 1989 (A/45/309 and Add.1).

6. At its 3rd meeting, on 8 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request for
hearing to Mr. J. A. Gonzhles-Gonz&lez  (A/C.4/45/6).  Mr, Gonz&lea-Gonzhlez  made a
statement at the 8th meeting, on 17 October (A/C.4/45/SR.8).

7. At its 14th meeting, on 25 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 18 of cIlapter VII of the report of the Special
Committee (A/45/23 (Part V)) by a recorded vote of 105 to 12, with 23 abstentions
(see  para. 8) .  a/ The vot ing was as  fo l lows:

In favourt Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Braail,  Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinaa, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint

21 To be incorporated in Ofricial Hecords  of the General Assembly,
Forty-fifth Session, Supplement No, 23 (A/45/23).

31 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of the
fol loving Member States: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Iceland (on behalf also of Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden), Israel, Italy (on
behalf of the 12 members of the European Community), Mongolia, Syrian Arab
Republic, Turkey and Uruguay.

/ . . .



A/45/682
English
Page 3

Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Social ist  Republics , United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanaanie,  Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela,  Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

-8 Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Absta~&r Australia,  Auotria, Bulgaria, C6te d*Ivoire,  Caechoslovakia,
Finland, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein,
Malawi, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Romania,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Zaire.

8 . The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolution:

on on the Gra&,ng  of Indeaex&&ulQ
to Colonial C-tries and Peoples bv Q’@ SDecialired  aaencies.m
theWw1 insthtibns assocmed with_theUnited_Nationa

The*

mmned the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialised
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations”,

Having considered  the reports submitted on the item by the
Secretary-General 41 and the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, s/

Recallinq its resolution 1514 (Xv) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, and the Plan of Action for the Full
Implementation of the Declaration, contained in the annex to General Assembly
resolution 351118 of 11 December 1980, as well as all other relevant resolutions

41 A/45/309 and Add.1.

51 A/AC.lO9/L.1140.

/ . . .



A/45/682
English
Page 4

adopted by the Assembly on this subject, including in particular resolution 44185
of 11 December 3989,

B its resolution S-1611 of 14 December 1989, containing the
Declaration on m and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa,

Dearina in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries and
of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the
Organisation of  African Unity,

Notina  with satisfaction the attainment of independence  by Namibia following
the holding of free and fair elections under the supervision and control of the
United Nations, and the subsequent admission of independent Namibia as a Member of
the United Nations on 23 April 1990,

Notinq that the large majority of the remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories
are small island Territories,

Recalling relevant resolutions of the Caribbean Development and Co-operation
Committee concerning the access of Non-Self-Governing Territories to programmes and
activities of the United Nations system,

Notinq the assistance extended thus far to colonial Territories by certain
specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system, in
particular the United Nations Development Programme, rnd considering that such
assistance should be expanded further, commensurate with the pressing needs of the
peoples concerned for external assistance, .

wssinq the importance of securing additional resources for funding
expanding programmes of assistance for the peoples concerned and the need to enlist
the support of the major funding institutions within the United Nations system in
that reqard,

Dotina  with deco concerq that destabilisation  by South Africa of the
front-line and neighbouring States, whether through direct aggression, sponsorship
of  surrogates , economic subversion or other means, the forms and consequences of
which stand well documented in United Nations and other publications, is
unacceptable in all its forms and must not occur,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the specialised agencies and other
orqanizations of the United Nations system to take all the necessary measures,
withintheir respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full and speedy
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (Xv) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations, particularly those relating to the extension of
assistance to  the peoples  of  the colonial  Territor ies ,

EXDreSSinU  its aDureciatiQr_n  to the General Secretariat of the Organisation of
African Unity for the continued co-operation and assistance it has extended to the
specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system in



A/45/602
English
Page 5

connection with the implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations, and convinced that closer contacts and consultations between the
specialized agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system and
regional organisations help to facilitate the effective formulation of assistance
programmes to the peoples concerned,

Wtinq with arave  co- the extensive links and collaboration between the
apartheid riqime of South Africa and certain countries in the political,
diplomatic, economic, nuclear, military and other fields, and the growing military
and nuclear co-operation between racist Pretoria and Israel,

Bearina in mind the importance of the activities of non-governmental
orqanizations aimed at putting an end to the assistance which is still being
rendered to South Africa by some specialised aqencies,

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the activities
of the specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system in
the implementation of the various United Nations decisions relating to
decolonization,

Bearina in mind the extremely fragile economies of the small island
Territories and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such as hurricanes and
cyclones, and recalling relevant resolutions of the General Assembly,

1. AnnroveR the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item] fi/

2. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organisations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute, within
their spheres of competence, to the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples)

3. Reaffirms also that the recognition by the General Assembly, the Security
Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the struggle of
colonial peoples to exercise their right to self-determination and independence
entai ls , as a corollar.*r, the extension by the specialised agencies and other
organisations of the United Nations system of all the necessary moral and material
assistance to those peoples and their national liberation movementst

4. Expresses its anoreciation  to those specialised agencies and other
orqanizations of the United Nations system that have continued to co-operate in
varying degrees with the United Nations and the Orqanization  of African Unity in
the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations, and urges all the specialized agencies and other

61 A/45/23 (Part V), chap. VII.

/ . . .



A/45/682
English
Paqe 6

orqaaizations of the United Nations system to accelerate the full and speedy
implementation of the relevant provisions of those resolutions:

5 . Reauerits  the specialised aqencies and other organisations of the United
Nations system to render or continue to render, as a matter of urgency, all
possible moral and material assistance to the colonial peoples, bearing in mind
that such assistance should not only meet their immediate needs but also create
conditions for development after they have exercised their right to
self-determination and independence;

6. Bswsts  once aaain the specialised agencies and other organisations of
the United Nations system to continue to provide all humanitarian, material and
rnp-al  assistance to Namibia and all newly independent and emerging States so as to
enable them to achieve genuine economic ii. dependence:

.7 .  &iterates  i t s  recommendatron that the specialised agencies and other
orqanizations of the United Nations system should initiate or broaden contacts and
co-operation with the colonial peoples and the administering Powers concerned,
d i re c t l y  o r , where appropriate, through regional orqanisations, in order to
intensify programmes of assistance, to  fac i l i tate  and to  accelerate  the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

8. Uraea  the executive heads of the specialised ,\qc)ncies  and other
orqanizations of the United Nations system, in co-operation with the regional and
other organisations where appropria te, to submit to their governing and legislative
organs concrete proposals for the full implementation of the relevant United
Nations decisions, particularly specific programmes of assistance to the peoples of
the colonial  Territories  and their  national  l iberation movcrments;

9. Uraes  once aaain the executive heads of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund to draw the attention of their governing bodies to the
present resolution and urges them to introduce flexible procedures to prepare
speciEic programmes for the peoples of the colonial Territories;

10. m the specialised agencies and othar organizationa of the United
Nations system that have not already done so to include in the agenda of the
regular meetings of their qoverninq bodies a separate item on the progress they
have made in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other
relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

. .-* Also reauem the specialized agencies and other orqanizations of the
United Nations system, as well as international and regional organisations, to take
appropriate measures within their respective spheres of competence in Jrder to
accelerate proqress in the economic and social sectors of those Territories;

12. Welcomes the continued initiative exercised by the United Nations
Development Programme in maintaining close liaison amonq the specialized agencies
and other orqanizations of the United Nations system, and in co-ordinatinq the
act ivit ies  of  the agencies  in  extending ef fect ive  assistance to  the peoples  of
co l on ia l  Terr i t o r i e s , and calls upon the specialized agencies and other

/ . l l



A/45/682
English
Page 7

organisations of the United Nations system, as a matter of urgency, to contribute
generously to the relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts in those
Non-Self -Governing Territories affected by natural disasterat

13. Uraea the administering Powers concerned to facilitate the participation
rlf the representatives of the Governments of Trust and Non-Self-Governing
Territories in the relevant meetings and conferences of the agencies and
organizations so that the Territories may draw the maximum benefits from the
related activities of the specialised agencies and other organisations of the
United Nations system;

14. Further uraea the specialised agencies and other organizationa of \.he
United Nations system to adhere to the Programme of Action contained in the
Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, in
particular with regard to increased support for the opponents of m, the use
of concerted and effective measures aimed at applying pressure to ensure a speedy
end to anartheid  and ensuring the non-relaxation of existing measures to encourage
the South African rcigime to eradicate m until there is clear evidence of
profound and irreversible changesr

15. Stresses, in the context of the Declaration on Aoartheid  and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, the need for the specialised agencies
and other organisations of the United Nations system to render all possible
assistance to the front-line and neighbouring States to enable them to rebuild
their economies, which have been adversely affected by South Africa’s acts of
aggression and destabilisation, to withstand any further such acts and to continue
to support the people of South Africa;

16. Invites the specialized  agencies and other organisations  of the United
Nations system to co-operate with the Action for Resisting Invasion, Colonialism
and Apartheid Fund set up by the Eighth Conference of Heads of State or Government
of Non-Aliqned Countries, held at Harare  from 1 to 6 September 1986, with the
common objective of providing emergency assistance to the front-lint States and
national liberation movements struggling against the martheid  r6girrer

17. Condemns the extensive links and collaboration between the aaert;hed
regime of South Africa and certain countries in the political, diplomatic,
economic, nuclear, military and other fields, and the growing military and nuclear
co-operation between the racist r6gime and Israel;

18. Recommends that all Governments should intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system of which
they are members to ensure the full and effective implementation of General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations
and, in that connection, should accord priority to the question of providing
assistance on an emergency basis to the peoples of the colonial Territories;

19, Reauests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialioed
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United

/ . . .



A/45/682
English
Page 8

Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the assistance
of  those  agencies  and organisations, a report on the action taken in implementation
of the relevant resolutions, including the present resolution, since the
circulation of  his  previous report)

20. m the Economic and Social Council to continue, as appropriate, to
consider, in consultation with the Special Committee on the Situation with regard
to the Implementation of th: Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, appropriate measures for co-ordination of the
policies and activities of the specialized  agencies and other orqanizations of the
United Nations system in implementing the rele;vant  resolutions of the General
Assembly;

21. BQauesta the specialized  agencies to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the present resolution;

22, @~J&$Q  the Special Committee to continue to examine the question and to
report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session.

-s--w


