
















































UNITED
NATIONS

. -- .--- -.----

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/45/702
27 November 1999

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 60

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND DECISIONS
ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS TENTH SPECIAL SESSION

&noorteur;  Mr. Let&i Modem LAWSON-BETUM (Togo)

I . INTRODUCTION

1, The item entitled

"Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions adopted by
the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

"(a)

"(b)

"(Cl

"(d)

"(@I

"(f)

"(9)

"(h)

I'(i)

90-32650

Report of the Disarmament Commissions

Report of the Conference on Disarmementr

Status of multilateral disarmament agreements1

Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters;

United Nations Institute for Disarmament hesearcht

Review and appraisal o f the implementation of the Declaration of the
1960s as the Second Disarmament Decade;

Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures;

Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear wart

Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament;

0474P  (E) / . . .



A/45/102
English
Page 2

‘I( j) Prevention of nuclear war]

“(k)  Declaration of the 19908 as the Third Disarmament Decade”

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-fifth session of the General
Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 36192 H of 9 December 1981,
38/183 0 of 20 December 1983, 391148  H of 17 December 1984, 401152 L of
16 December 1985, 43178 H of 7 rscember 1988 and 441119 B E andto H of
15 December 1989.

2 . At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1930, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3 . At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October 1990, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items  allocated to it, namely, items 45 to 66.
At its 4th meeting, on 16 October, the First Committee decided to consider jointly
with other dis;.rmament  items agenda item 155, which was al?.ocated to the First
Committee upon a decision of the General Assembly at its 30th plenary meeting, on
15 October. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
23rd meetings, from 15 to 30 October (see A/C. 1/4S/PV.3-23). Coni-,ideration of and
action on draft resolutions on those items took place between the 24th and
39th meetings, from 2 to 16 November (see A/C.1/45/PV.24-39).

4. In connection with item 60, the First Cormnittee  had before it the following
documents :

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament) $1

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; a/

(c) Sixth report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions on the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters - United Nations Institute
for Disarmament Research; request for subvention to the Instdtute for 1991
(A/45/7/Add.  5);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the guidelines
for appropriate types of confidence-building measures (A!45/397);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Matters (A/45/498) t

11 Dfficial Records of the General Ass@lv,  Forty-fifth Session, Sunnleme nt
NO, 27 (A/45/27).

21 Ibid., Suoolement  N o .  4 2  (A/45/42).

/ ..I



A/45/782
English
Page 3

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on the review and appraisal of the
implementation of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade
(A/40/510 and Add.1);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on the status of multilateral disarmament
agreements (A/45/705);

(h) Note by the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Matters: United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (A/45/392):

(i) Letter dated 7 March 1990 from the Permanent Representatives of Thailand
and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/45/164-S/21187).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/45/L.2 and Rev.1

5. On 29 October, Niaeria submitted a draft resolution entitled "Declaration of
the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade" (A/C.1/45/L.2), which was later also
sponsored by Costa Rica.

6. On 8 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/45/L.2/Rev.l), which was introduced by the representative of Niaeria at the
33rd meeting, on 9 November. The revised draft resolution contained the following
changes:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, "Recallinq" was replaced by
"Reaffirminq";

(b) In the seventh preambular paragraph, "Notinq the progress in the
disarmament talks" was revised to read "Noting the'progress in the arms limitation
and disarmament talks";

(c) In operative paragraph 3, "Decides to declare" was replaced by "Declares":

(d) In operative paragraph 4, "implement" was replaced by "pursue";

(e) Original operative paragraph 5 was deleted and the subsequent paragraph
was renumbered accordingly:

(f) Original operative paragraph 6, now new operative paragraph 5, which had
read:

"Resuest;g  the Secretary-General to report annually to the General
Assembly on the implementation of the Declaration of the 1990s as the Third
Disarmament Decade"

/ l . .



A/45/782
English
Page 4

was revised to read:

“RBQU88t8  the Secretary-General to report as ant3 when necessary to the
General Assembly on progress made in the implementation of the Declaration of
the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade”.

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/45/L.2/Rev.l
without a vote (see pera.  24, draft resolution A).

8. Draft- A/C.1/45/L.l2-~l,@,!  Rev. 1

8. On 30 October, Araent,na,  Austraua.  AU&L&& Cameroon, Chine.  Denmark,
&p&Lor. IngpnaaFg, Iran (Is amic  Realic of ). Niggl;ia.  Swe&m.  Togg& the
V-4 the U n i t e d  o f  Okeat Britain an8
N-m Ire- the United R8publ  c of Tu&.R and Uggslav& submittedd r a f ta
resolution entitled “Report of the Disarmament Commission” (A/C.1/45/L.12),  which
was later also sponsored by Ghana and w.

9. On 15 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/45/L.12/Rev.l),  which was introduced by the representative of Indonesia at
the 38th meeting, on 16 November. The revised draft resolution contained the
following change: operative paragraph 10, which had reaUl

“10. Uraea  the Disarmament Commission, in accordance with the adopted
‘Ways and means to enhance the functioning of the Disarmament Commission’, to
finalise the consideration of the working agenda for its 1991 substantive
session for adoption at the 1990 organisational session”,

was replaced byr

“10. 8ecommer@8  that the Disarmament Commission, as a result of
consul tat ions, adopt at its 1990 organisational  session the following
substantive items for the inclusion in the working agenda of the 1991 session
of the Commission:

(1) Objective information on military matterst

(2) ProLess  of nuclear disarmament in the framework of international
peace and security with the objective of the elimination of nuclear
weapons t

(3) Regional approach to disarmament within the context of global
securityt

(4) The role of science and technology in the context of international
security, disarmament and other related fields”.

10. At its 39th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolutic...
A/C.l/45/L.12/Rev.l  without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution B).

/ . . .



A/45/782
English
Page 5

C. Qraft resol&ion  AtC.lt45tt.~

11, On 30 October, Arcrentixla,  E#rU the man Soviet Socmublic.
co. wria. Peru. Swew Urw aad

Vaneauela  submitted a c¶rBft  resolution entitled “Cessation of the nuclear-arms race
and nuclear disarmament and prevention of nuclear war” (AtC.lt45tL.23), which was
later al80 sponsored by Eolivia,  Cm, Iran (I&&unic  wit of L the m the

Soviet Socut Rw and the mted WC of TEsnaernia, The draft
reso?.ution  wa8 introduced by the representative of Argentina at the 33ri meeting,
oa 9 November,

12. At ite 34th meetiag, oa 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AtC.lt45tL.23 by a recorded vote of 112 to 12, with 9 abstentions (see para.  24,
draft resolution C). The voting was as follows:

Xnfavourt AfghaniStdn, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brasfl, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,. Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Coago,
Costa Rica, C&e B’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, F i j i ,  Finland, Ghaaa,
Guatemala, Guiaea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyaaa, Haiti, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica,
Jordan, Keaya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Liechteasteia,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Myanmar,  Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudaa, Suriname,
Swaailaad, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Taneania, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

-g Belgium, Canada, Fraace, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Absfaininat Caechoslovakia,  Denmark, Greece, Icelaad,  Israel, Japan, Norway,
Poland, Romania.

D. Qraft LBSolution AtC.lt45tL.26 and Rev.&

13, .On 31 October, mria. Argentina, Bras
I i 1, C-omw&cuador , Ema, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RsDublic of), Madaaascar,  Malavsia,

MhMorocco,ar.  Niaeria,  Peru, SriiSW and
Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled “Report of the Conference on

/ . . .



A/45/702
English
Page 6

t

Disarmament” (A/C.1/45/L.26),  which was later also sponsored by Bolivb.T h e  d r a f t
resolution was introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at the 30th meeting,
on 7 November.

14. IOn 14 November, w Arcrentina.  Bolivia.Braail,  Cola. Cuba. Ecua&&
t .  Es, I- I r a n  (Is&~&c Rep-

Q
1. Peru, Sri La&B, SW-

submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/45/L.26/Rev.l),  which was later also sponsored by m. The draft
resolution contained the following changes:

(a) In the sixth preambular paragraph, “an extraordinary impetus” was revised
to read *‘a new impetus”t

(b) A new seventh preambular paragraph was added, reading;

,I of the relevant paragraphs of the report
of the Conference on Disarmament, on the progress towards improved and
effective functioning of the Conference, and expressing the hope that the
process will continue in all aspects of its work”.

15. At its 37th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.26/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 108 to 8, with 16 abstentions (see
para. 24, draft resolution D), The voting was as followsr 91

-1 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Brunei Daruasalam, Bvrkina  Faso,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cdte d*Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji., Finland, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Moaambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabie, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

11 Subsequently, the delegation of Zaire indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour of the draft resolution.



A/45/762
English
Page 7

Acrainet: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

&f&&&&g: Bulgat ia, Canada, Csechoslovakia, Denmark, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Israel, Japan, Liechtenstein,  Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Spain, Turkey.

E. D r a f t  regm&&?n  A/C.1/45/L.32

16. On 31 October, -ia. -co, MvaxiBar,  Peru and §ri Law submitted a
draft resolution entitled “Comprehensive Programme of Disarmament” (A/C.1/45/L.32),
which was later also sponscred  by $oliv&,&. The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of Mexico at the 24th meeting, on 2 November.

17. At its 36th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.32  as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was adopted by a recorded vote of 96 to 13, with
20 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

ufavour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Raiti, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambique,
Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Alabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,  Singapore, somalia,
Sri Lauka,  Sudan, Suriname, Swariland,  Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanaania,  Uruguay, Veneauela,  Viet Nam,  Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

-8 Australia, Belgium, Canada, Csechoslovakia, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaininqr  Austria, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Denmark, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Liechtenstein, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Romania,
Spain, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics,

/ . . .



A/45/782
English
Papa 8

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1te45/L.32, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 102 to 6, with 22 abstentions (see para. 24, draft resolution E). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Barba.los,  Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Datussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, CainerOOn,
Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rfca,
C&e d*Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, MaUritiUS, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Per&
Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Aaainst: Belgium, France, Luzemhourg, Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaininq: Australia, Bulgaria, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Borway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

F. Draft resolution X/C.1145/L.36

18. On 31 October, Australia, Austria, the mamas, Belaium. BulaariaL the
Bvelorussian  Soviet Socialist ReDublic00 , Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica,, Camer n
Czechoslovakia, Denmark. Ecuador, Finland. France. Germanv, Greece, Hunuar Indiaz v,
Ireland, Italv, Luzembouru, the Netherlands, New Zealand. Norway, Pakistan. Peru,
Poland, Romania. Soain. Touo. the Union of Soviet Socialist ReDublics. the United
Kinodom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the guidelines for
appropriate types of confidence-building measures" (A/C.1/45/L.36), which was later
also sponsored by Bolivia, Neoal. Portuaal. Samoa, Seneaal and Turkev. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Germany at the 25th meeting, on
5 November.

19. At its 33rd meeting, on 9 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/45/L.36  without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution F).

/ . . .



A/45/782
English
Page 9

G. Dr ft resolution A/C,l/45/L.53 and Rev.1a

20. On 31 October, Al eria Ar entina, u a, Brazil. Cameroon, China, Ecuador,CI , Q A stri
Eavnt, France, Greece, India, Indonesia, Italv. the Netherlands. Niaeria, Norwav,
P o l a n d ,  t h e  U n i o n  o f  S o v i e t  S o c i a l i s t  Revublics
and Yuuoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled "Tenth anniversary of the
United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research" (A/C.1/45/L.53), which was later
also sponsored by Bolivia, Hunoarv. Iran (Islamic Revublic of), the Philivrines,
Portuaal and Sinuanore. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative'
of France at the 32nd meeting, on 8 November.

21. On 14 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/45/L.53/Rev.l),  which was later also sponsored by Costa Rica, the Libvan
m and Pm. The revised draft resolution contained the folloringAr
changes:

(a) At the end of operative paragraph 4, the phrase "and to fulfil the
objectives set out in section IV of General Assembly resolution 441201 B of
21 December 1989" was added:

(b) Operative paragraph 7, which had read:

"7. Reuuests the Institute to prepare, with the assistance of
independent experts, a research report on the economic aspects of disarmament
and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session"

was revised to read:

"7 . Reouests the Institute to prepare, with the assistance of
independent experts, a research report on the economic aspects of disarmament
and to report to the General Assembly, through the Secretary-General, at its
forty-seventh session, the costs of this research project being shared between
the regular budget of the United Nations and voluntary contributions".

22. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on its programme budget implications (A/C.1/45/L.62).

23. At its 39th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.53/Rev.l  without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution G).

/ .“.



A/45/782
English
Page 10

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

21. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly th? adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Review of the imnlemr:Qtion of the recommendetions  and decisions
adooted bv the General Assembly at its tenth snecial session

A

Declaration of the 1 OS as99

The General Assemblv,

Recallinq its resolution 35/46 of 3 December 1980, in which it declared the
1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade,

Rm its resolution 34175 of 11 December 1979, in which it directed
the Disarmament Commission to prepare elements of a draft resolution entitled
"Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade" for submission to the
General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session for consideration and adoption,

Bearino in mind that the Second Disarmament Decade declared by its resolution
35146 has come to an end,

Reaffirminq its resolution 43/7% L of 7 December 1988, in which it decided to
declare the decade of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade,

Recallinq also its resolution 441119 H of 15 Decelrber  1989, in which it
directed the Disarmament Commission, at it5 1990 substantive sessionlo to finalise
the preparation of elements of a draft resolution to be entitled "Declaration of
the 1990s as the Third Disarmament DecaLeq ti and to submit them to the General
Assembly at its forty-fifth session for consideration and adoption,

Reaffirminq the responsibility of the United Nations in the attainment of
disarmament,

Notinq the progress in the arms limitation and disarmament talks between the
Uaion of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America, as well as
other general recent positive developments in international relations and their
positive impact on the attainment of global peace and security,

Desirous of maintaining the current momentwn in the disarmament process,

Convinced that a third disarmament decade will accelerate the disarmament
process,

/ . . .



A/45/702
English
Page 11

1. s with eatfsfaction the work of the DfsarmMlent Commission at its
1990 session, at which it successfully concluded a draft Declaration of the 1990s
as the Third Disarmament Decader  IQ/

2. w the text of the Declaration of the 1990s ae the Third Disarmament
Decade adopted by the Disarmament Commission, as set forth in the annex to the
present resolutiont

3. Declara the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade)

4. -1s w all States to support the objectives of the Decade and pursue
the activities elaborated in the Declaration of the Third Disarmament Decade,

5. m the Secretary-General to report as and when necessary to the
General Assembly on progress made in the implementation of the Declaration of the
1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade.

ANNEX

Declm 1990s as thed Dfsetmament

1. The present Declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade is
addressed to the global community, and deals with the hopes and aspirations of
people for lasting peace and security.

2. After a period of heightened tensions, the latter part of the decade of the
1980s saw a noticeable improvement in the way many States conducted their relations
with one another. Despite this favourable tread, the specific goals of the Second
Disarmament Decade were not fully realised.

3. In a world of growing interdependence, it is essential for the international
community to stimulate and deepen awareness of the common interests of the global
society and of the universal interest in achieving disarmament and strengthening
international peace and security. The challenges facing the international
community today are enormous. Accordingly, the solution of these difficult and
complex issues will require the political will of States in conducting dialogue and
negotiations and in promoting international co-operation, including
confidence-building measures aimed at reducing tensions and the risk of military
confrontation among States, bearing in mind specific condit!ons  prevailing in the
region concerned, It will also require acknowledgement of the profound
interrelationship of questions relating to disarmament, social and economic
development and environmental protection.

41 Dfficial Records of the General As&lv.  Fortv-fifu Session, SueeLBmaELf
PO. 42 (A/45/42), para. 35.



A/45/702
Rngl ish
Page 12

4. The international community stands on common ground in determining to make
progress in the 19908 by resolutely pursuing diearmament along with other effort8
necessary for attaining genuine peace and security. A8 member8 of the
international connnunity, we have identified the following common goals. In the
nuclear field, w8 must Continue urgently to seek  early reduction8 in, and the
eventual elimination of, nuclear weapons and work towards a comprehensive
nuclear-teat ban. To achieve the objective of non-proliferatioi  in all its
aspects, all States are encouraged to make every effort further to strengthen the
non-proliferation regime  and other measures to halt and prevent the proliferation
of nuclear weapona. The aim of the international community should be to promote
co-operation in the peaceful  use Of nuclear energy on 8 non-di8CriminatOry  baSf8
and under agreed and appropriate international safeguards. The prevention of an
arms race in outer apace remains an important area to be further tiddreased. Many
States also see the need to addresa naval confidence-building meaaurea  and
disarmament issues. Iti the conventional field, we muet seek reductions in arms and
armed forces in all areas of the world and, in particular, where levels of
concentrations of armament8 are higheet. In thie regard, we urgently oeek the
successful  conclusion of the negotiations on conventional force8 in EUrOpea We aim
for continued consideration of arm8 transfers in all their aspects. In the
chemical field, we must work for the earliest conclusion of a convention on the
prohibition of the de *eloprnent,  production, stockpiling and use of all chemicai
weapons an8 on their destruction. The international community aleo call8 for
strict compliance with the Protocol for the ?rohibition  of the Usct in War of
Asphyxiating, POi8OnOU8  or Other 08888, and of Bacteriological Method8  of Warfare,
signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925. Rl’ As further steps forward, opennese and
transparency on all 8Pnropriate military matters should be developed, the scope and
technique8 ,f verification ai,vanced, the u8e of science and technology for peaceful
purposes promoted and non-military threat8 to security addressed. All other
initiatives to halt and reverse the arms race, in particular the nuclear-qrms  race,
in both its qualitative and quantitative aspect8 deserve careful consideration,
Such initiatives include the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free aones on the
basis of arrangements freely arrived at among States ot the region concerned and
the creation of aones  of peace render  appropriate conditiqus defined and determined
freely by the State8 concerned in the aone. In the pureuit of the foregoing goals,
the international community acknowledges the particular re8pOn8ibility  of countries
w’th the larq?dt military arsenals. Resource8 freed through disarmament zould be
Used for the benefit of a balanced world &evelopment. These go818 should be
included in a comprehensive programme of disarmament, which should be concluded at
an appropriate time.

5. The United Nation8 will continue to fester multilateral co-operation for
disarmament, wherein bilateral and regional effsrts can be complementary and
mutually supportive in attaining the purpoees  and principle8 of the United
Nations, The international  community can further promote disarmament through the
United Nations by building upon its achievements in this field, including t:is vjnal
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly (resolution S-10/2),
which was adopted by consensus.

sd League of Nations,  matv Se*, vol. XCIV (1929), Na. 2138.

/ . . .



A/45/702
Engli8h
Page 13

6. The international community affirms the positive role that an informed public
can play in the procees of disarmament by promoting a constructive and realistic
dialogue on i88Ue8  related t0 di8armament. In this regard, the pureuit  of the
World Disarmament Campaign and the observance of Disarmament Woek will continue to
play a useful role, Reflecting a growing understanding and commitment in dealing
with the global problems of peace and security, it recognises that non-governmental
organisations  play an invaluable role. It also eupports an enhanced role for women
in developing the condition8 for enduring peace.

7. A8 the world movea  toward8 the twenty-firat  Century, it  is evident that fu ture
generations will need increasing knowledge and understanding of the interdependent
nature of life on the planet. Education on international peace and uecurity  issues
will play a fundamental part in allowing every individual to realise hi8 or her
role a8 a responeible  member of the world community.

B

U&g co- the annual report of the Disarmament Commission, 51

v the importance of an effective follow-up to the relevant
recommendations and decisions contained in the .‘inal Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Aeeembly,  a/ the firet special session devoted to
disarmament,

u into acm the relevant oactione of the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Seseion of the General Assembly,  21 the 8dCOnd  8peCi81 session
devoted to di8arma,ment,

Also -into ace- widespread views erpreeeed  during ths fifteenth
special session of the General Asaembly, the third special session devoted to
disarmament,

considering tho role that the Disarmament Commission ha8 been called upon to
play and the contribution that it should make in ewnining  and eubmitting
recommendation8 on various problems in the field of disarmament and in the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant decision8  of the tenth special
session,

51 Official Reweds of thhwral Aaaa&lv,o,ifthsession,-= S‘-
No. 42 (A/45/42).

61 Resolution S-1012.

Z/ Uficial o f  [th Glpecial  Session,
m, agenda itema 9-13, document A/S-12/32.

/ . . .



A/45/782
English
Page 14

w it8 resolutions 33/71 Ii of 14 December 1978, 34153 U of
11 December 1979, 35/152 F of 12 December 1980, 36/92 B of 9 December 1981, 37178 H
of 9 December 1962, 381183  E of 20 December 1983, 391148  R of 17 December 1964,
40/152 F of 16 December 1985, 41186 E of 4 December 1986, 42142 G of
30 November 1907, 43176 A of 7 December 1958 and 441119  C of 15 December 1969,

1. -8 note Of the annual report Of the Diearmament COIWIIi88iOnt  s/

2. Notes  wiurecbfiog that the Disarmament Commiasion has concluded its
cOn8ideratiOn of all substantive  items on it8 agenda, except ths item on objective
information on military matters)

3, Cammenas the Disarmament Commission for its adoption by conaensua  of the
specific recommendations on the following eubjects on it8 agenda1 (a) South
Africa’8 nuclear capability, (b) the role of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament, (c) conventional diS8rmament  and (d) the draft Declaration of the
19908 a8 the Third Disarmament Decade;

4, Notea that the finding8 and recommendations contained in the report of
the Chairman of the Disarmament Commission on the item regarding naval armaments
and disarmament 81 are endorsed by all participants in hi8 consultationsr

5. &Jso no- that no consenaua  could be reached on specific recommendations
for the item regarding various aspect.8 of the arm8 race, particularly the
nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament, aa well as a general approach ta
negotiatioes  on nuclear and conventional disarmamentt

6. Recalb the role of the Disarmament Commission as the epecialised,
deliberative body within the United Nation8 multilateral disarmament machinery that
allows for in-depth deliberations on specific disarmament isauea, leading to the
submission of concrete recommendations on those issuoer

7. ureasea  the importance far the Disarmament Commission of working on the
basis Of a relV.Vaut  agenda Of disarmament tOpiC8, thereby enabling the Commission
to concantrate itu effort8 and thus optimise its progress on specific subjects in
accordance with resolution 37176 Ht

8. Note8  with satiefactioq  that the J’iaarmament  Commission adopted by
consensus  a set of “Ways and means to enhance the functioning of the Disarmament
Commission” at its 1990 substantlve sesoionj

9. Reauest6  the Disarm;rment  Commission to continue its work in accordance
with its mandate, as set forth in paragraph 116 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the Genera 1 Assembly, and with paragraph 3 of resolution
31110 H, and to that end to make every effort to achieve specific reCOmIT@ndatiOn8
on the items on its agenda, taking into account the adopted “Ways and means to
enhance the functioning of the Disarmament Comrnio8ion”~

81 u., Forty-f i fth Session,  SW--&Z (A/45/42), para. 33.

/ . . .



A/45/Y02
English
Page 15

10, w that the Disarmament Commission, as a result of consultations,
adopt at its 1990 urganisational session the following substantive items for the
inclusion in the working agenda of the 1991 session of the Commission:

(1) Objective information on military matters)

(2) Process of nuclear disarmament in the framework of international peace
and security with the objective of the elimination of nuclear weaponst

(3) Regional approach to disarmament within the context of global security]

(4) The role of science and technology in the context of international
Security,  disarmament and other related fields)

11. m the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not exceeding
four weeks during 1992 and to submit a substantive report to the Qeaeral Assembly
at its forty-sixth session,

12. m the Secretary4eneral  to transmit to the Disarmament Commission
the annual report of the Conference on Disarmament, g/ together with all the
offic’.al records of the forty-fifth session of the General  Assembly relating to
disarmsment  matters, and to render all assistance that the Commission may require
for implementing the present resolutionr

13, Uo rew the Secretary-General to ensure full provision to the
Commission and its subsidiary bodies of interpretation and translation facilities
in the official laquages,  and to assign, as s matter of priority, all the
necessary resources and services to this ends

14. &&&&a  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the item entitled “Report of the Disarmament Commission”.

C

Sessation of theear-armeear  e.

B that all nations have a vital interest in negotiations on nuclear
disarmament because the existence of nuclear weapons jeopardises  the vital security
interests of both nuclear and non-nuclear-weapon States alike,

m its resolution 441119  E of 15 December 1989,

91 J&U., Forty-fifth Sesaipn, Sur>mnt  No.  22 (A/45/27).



A/45/702
English
Page 16

m that the international community, through the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the Qeneral  Assembly, J,Q/ the first special session
devoted to disarmament, has agreeU  that the nuclear-arms race, far from
contributing to the strengthening of the security of all States, increases the
danger of the outbreak of a nuclear war,

m the reaffirmation by the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, u/ held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1969, that nuclear disarmament is a process in which all nations shduld
participate, and its view that the ongoing process of disarmament could be
accelerated and its coverage widened through the common endeavour of the entire
international community,

w into account that all nuclear-weapon States, in particular those with
the most important nuclear arsenals, bear a special responsibility for the
fulfilment of the task of achieving the goals of nuclear disarmament,

&w that the prevention of nuclear war and the reduction of the risk of
nuclear war are matters of the highest priority and of vital interest to all people
of the world,

Encouraaea  by the continued recognition hy the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United States of America that a nuclear war cannot be won and
must never be fought,

Awsre of the fact that the prevention of nuclear war and the reduction of the
risk of nuclear war are inextricably linked with the cessation of the nuclear-arms
race and nuclear disarmament, and that consequently they should be viewed in their
interrelationship as essential elements of a process 02 general and complete
disarmament,

Convincea  that all avenues should be explored to ensure that progress is made
in these two vital fields, snd also convinced of the imperative need to take
constructive multilateral action to complement and reinforce the bilateral process
under way*

1. Reaffirms that multilateral and bilateral negotiations on nuclear
questions should complement and facilitate each Others

2. Believes that efforts should be intensified in order to initiate
multilateral negotiations in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 50 of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General ASSSmblyJ &Q/

bQ/ Resolution S-1012,

JJ/ See A/44/551-S/20870,  annex,

/ . . .



A/45/702
Xnglish
Page 17

3, Re that, in view of the importance of the matter, it is equally
necessary to devise suitable steps to expedite effective action for the prevention
of nuclear warj

4. a the Conference on Disarmament to establish ~ committees at
the beginning of its 1991 session on both the cessation of the nuclear-arms race
and nuclear disarmament and the prevention of nuclear war with adequate mandates in
order to allow a structured and practical analysis of how the Conference on
Disarmament can best contribute to progress on these two urgent matterst

5. BLap reuu the Conference on Disarmament to repart to the General
Assembly at its forty-sixth session on its consideration of those subjects)

6. Deciaeg  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the items entitled “Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmamentV’  and
“Prevention of nuclear war”.

D

w its resolutions 34183 B of 11 December 1979, 351152 J of
12 December 1980, 36/92 F of 9 December 1981, 37/78 G of 9 December 1982, 38/183 I
of 20 December 1983, 39/148 N of 17 December 1984, 401152  M of 16 December 1985,
41/86 M of 4 December 1986, 42142 L of 30 November 1987, 43178  M of 7 December 1988
and 441119  D of 15 December 1989,

sm the report of the Conference on Disarmament, u/

:onvince8 chat the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
negotiating body on disarmament, should have the primary role in substantive
negotiations on priority questions of disarmsment,

E;1IPresBipg  its rew that the Conference on Disarmament was not able in 1990
to commence negotiations on the nuclear issues on its agenda,

-its that the Conference on Disarmament, in view of the
positive current process in some fields of disarmament, will be in a position to
reach concrete agreements on disarmsment issues to which the United Nations has
assigned the greatest priority and urgency and which have been under consideration
fcr a number cf years,

v that in the present international climate it is more than ever
imperative to give a new impetus to negotiations on disarmament at all levels and
to achieve genuine progress in the immediate future,

W Official. Re ords of the General  AssW0 Forty-fifth Sessio& Suppleme~
Ho, 27 (A/45/27).

/ . . .



A/45;762
English
Pagu 18

.with sam of the relevant paragraphs of the report of the
Conference on Disarmament, on the progress towards improved and effective
functioning of the Conference, JJ/ and expressing the hope that the process will
continue in all aspects of its work,

1. Reaffirms the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international communityI

2. Notea  the progress in the negotiations on the elaboration of a draft
convention on the complete and effective prohibition of the development,
production, stockpiling and use of all chemical weapons and on their destruction,
and urges the Conference on Disarmament to intensify its work with a view to
completing negotiations on such a drsft convention as soon as pOSSibleJ

3. use noa the re-establishment of the u Committee on a Nuclear Test
B0nJ

4. (&lls unog the Conference on Disarmament to strengthen its work, to
furthez its mandate through substantive negotiations, within the framework of
ad hoc committees as the most appropriate mechanism, and to adopt concrete measures
on the specific priority issues of disarmament on its agenda, in accordance with
the Progrsmme of Action set forth in section III of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General ASSemblgJ  &4/

5. m the Conference on Disarmament to provide negotiating mandates to
&3 hoc committees on all agenda items, in keeping with the fundamental role of the
Conference as identified in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Sessionj

6. m the Conference on Disarmament to submit a .teport on its work to
the General Assembly at its forty-sixth sessions

7, Decide8  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the item entitled “Report of the Conference on Disarmament**.

E

Somorehensive Prm of Di-

T h e  G e n e r a l  A s s - ,

Pecallialg its resolution 2602 E (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it
declared the decade of the 1970s as a Disarmament Decade and requested, wr alia,
the then Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to work out “a comprehensive
programme, dealing with all aspects of the problem of the cessation of the arms
race and general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

JJ/ U., p a r e s .  16-16.

u/ Resolution S-10/2.

/ * . .



A / 4 5 / 7 6 2
English
Page 19

which would provide the Conference with a guideline to chart the course of its
further work and its negotiations”,

&Cal-also  its resolution 35/46 of 3 December 1980, by which it adopted
the Declaration of the 1980s  as the Second Disarmament Decade, which, inter alis,
tailed for the elaboration of the comprehensive programme of disarmament with the
utmost urgency,

Recallinu fur- its resolution 44/119 A of 15 December 1969, in which it
called upon the Conference on Disarmament to consider, at the beginning of its 1991
session, the resumption of the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Comprehensive
Programme of Disarmament with the aim of resolving the outstanding issues in order
to conclude the elaboratiirn  of the programme,

-ined the part of the report of the Conference on Disarmament which
containfj  the agreement that the organisational framework to deal with the
comprehensive programme of disarmament, as in the case of other of its agenda
items, shall be considered at the beginning of the 1991 session.. u/

ms in rnia the conclusions reached by the Ad Hoc: Committee on the
Comprehensive Programme of Disarmament in its report of 1989 to the effect that “it
should resume work with the view to resolving the outstanding issues in the near
f u t u r e , when circumstances are more conducive to making progress in this
regard”, bQ/

Co that the present improvement in East-West relations provides the
appropriate scenario for a renewed effort towards the conclusion of the
comprehensive programme of disarmement,

Considerina  also that the conclusion of the elaboration of the comprehensive
programme of disarmament would constitute an important contribution to the success
of the Third Disarmament Decade and to the role of the United Nations in the field
of disarmament,

1. &$gu.ests  the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish, at the beginning
of its 1991 session, the Ad Hoq Committee on the Comprehensive Programme of
Disarmament J

2. Recommends that the Ad Hoc Committee on the Comprehensive Programme of
Disarmament continue its work, building on the texts already agreed to, with the
view to resolving the outstanding issues and thus concluding negotiations on it;

3 . Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the item entitled “Comprehensive programme of disarmament”.

J,5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fifth Session, Suoolement
No, 2 7  ( A / 4 5 / 2 7 ) ,  s e c t .  1II.R.

u/ CD/955,  para. 7 .



A/45/782
English
Page 20

F

&.9- its resolution 43176  H, adopted without a vote on 7 December 1988,

Beiterw its support for the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building  measures and for the implementation of such measures on a
global or regional level, U/ as endorsed in that resolution,

YVelcqming  the report of the Secretary-Qeneral LB/ on experience reported by
Member States with the implementation of confidence-building measures,

w in u that confidence-building is a dynamic process over time and an
interim assessment taking account of the experience  gained may be valuable,

)Jotinu with sa- the encouraging results of specific
confidence-building measures agreed upon and implemented in some regions,

Bearin- the particular need for confidence-building measures at times
of political tension and crises as well as their potential to prevent such
situations from arising,

pearh in u that confidence-building measures pursued at the regional
level can contribute to the development of global security,

-ring that confidence-building measures, especially when applied in a
comprehensive manner, can be conducive to achieving structures of security based on
co-operation and openness,

PointiBg to the example of progress in the implamentation of confidence- and
security-building measures adopted at Stockholm in 1966 that has contributed to
more stable relations and increased security, reducing the risk of military
confrontation in Europe,

Aware that there are situations peculiar to specific regions that have a
bearing on the nature of the confidence-building measures feasible in those regions,

u/ Qfficialmof Geggral  Ascj.mblv,  F i f t e e n t h  -Session,
No. 2 (A/S-15/3) and m., PortFment  No, 42

u/ A / 4 5 / 3 9 ? .



A/45/782
English
Page 21

1. Recommen&  the guidelines to all States for implementation, taking fully
into account the specific political, military and other conditions prevailing in a
region, on the basis of initiatives and with the agreement of the States of the
region concerned:

i 2. Also recom to ~11 States that have started to implement
confidence-building measures to pursue further and strengthen this process;

I
r 3. ADDeala to all States to consider the widest possible use of

confidence-building measures in their international relations, including bilateral,
regional and global negotiations, especially in times of political tension and
crises;

4. Invites the Secretary-General to continue to collect relevant information
from all Member States1

5. &nealg  to all Member States that have not yet done so to make their
contribution to the report of the Secretary-General;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh session
the item entitled “Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures”.

Tenth anniversary of the United Nations Institute
for Disarmament Research

The General Assembly,

Recallinq its resolution 34/83 M of 11 December 1979, in which it requested
the Secretary-General to establish the United Nations Institute for Disarmament
Research on the basis of the recommendations contained in the report of the
Secretary-General, B/

Reaffirminq its resolution 391148 H of 17 December 1984, in which it approved
the Statute of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, renewed the
invitation to Governments to consider making voluntary contributions to the
Institute and requested the Secretary-General to continue to give the Institute
administrative and other support,

Recalling its resolution 42142 J of 30 November 1987,  in which it took note
with appreciation of the report *lf the Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies 2J/
and noted that the establishment of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament
Research offered new opportunities regarding research in the field of disarmament,

191 A/34/509.

2?/ A/42/300 and Corr .l, annex.

/ . . .



A/45/702
English
Page 22

Notinq that the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989,
expressed in its final document a/ their appreciation for the research work
conducted by the Institute and stressed the need to ensure its contirue? v:ability
by assured financial support from the regular budget of the United Nations and
through voluntary contributions,

Considerinq the need for the international community to have access to
independent and in-depth research on disarmament, in particular on emerging
problems and the foreseeable consequences of disarmament,

Notinq in this regard the importance of research on the economic aspects of
disarmament,

Havina considered the annual report of the Director of the Institute 221 and
the report of the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters a/ acting in its capacity
as Board of Trustees of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research,

1. Takes note of the tenth anniversary of the establishment of the Wited
Nations Institute for Disarmament Research:

2. Recoanizes the increased importance and high quality of the work of the
United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research in execution of its mandate under
its Statute;

3. Reiterats the conviction that the Institute should continue to ccnduct
independent research on problems relating to disarmament and should be further
encouraged to undertake specialized research or research requiring a high degree of
expertise;

4. Calls unon all Member States and public or private institutions to
consider making contributions to the Institute in order to ensure its long-term
viability and to fulfil the objectives set out in section IV of General Assembly
resolution 441201 B of 21 December 1989;

5. Recommends the continued implementation of the Statute of the Institute;

6. Invites the Director of the Institute and the Advisory Board on
Disarmament Matters to continue to report annually to the General Assembly on the
activities conducted by the Institute;

211 A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

221 A/45/392, annex I.

a/ A/45/392, annex II.

/ . . .



A/45/702
English
Page 23

7. RecruestP  the Institute to prepare, with the assistance of independent
experts, a research report on the economic aspects of disarmament and to report to
the General Assembly, through the Secretary-General, at its forty-seventh session,
the costs of this research project being shared between the regular budget of the
United Nations and voluntary contributions.

w--w-


