
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/45/600
7 November 1990

ORIGINAL; ENGLISH

F o r t y - f i f t h  s e s s i o n
Agenda item 111

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 E OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATI3NS

Mr. James KEMRER  (New Zealand)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
forty- f i f th session the i tem entit led "Information from Non-Self-Governing
Territories transmitted under Article 73 Q of the Charter of the United Nations".
At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Committee.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 111, 113 and 12, 114 and 115, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would be
considered separately.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 111 at its 7th to 14th meetings,
between 15 and 25 October (see A/C.4/45/SR.7-14). The general debate on the items
referred to above, including the present item, took place at the 8th to
14th meetings, between 17 and 25 October.

4. At the 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1990 and drew
attention to chapter VIII of the report of that Committee relating to item 111
( A / 4 5 / 2 3  ( P a r t  V); A/ conta in ing ,  in ter  alia, the  re la ted  dra f t  r e so lu t i on
submitted by the Committee for the consideration of the Fourth Committee.

11 To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Fortv- f i f th Session,  Suoolement  No.  a (A/45/23).

90-29815 0414P (El / l . *

. -7



A/45/600
English
Page 2

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
re la t ing  t o  the  i t e m  ( A / 4 5 / 5 5 9 ) .

6 . At its 14th meeting, on 25 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 9 of chapter VIII of the report of the Special
Committee (A/45/23 (Part V)) by a recorded vote of 136 to none, with 3 abstentions
(see  para. 7) .  a/ The vot ing was as fo l lowsr

Tnfavaurr Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
E t h i o p i a ,  F i j i , Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic  of ) ,  Iraq,  Ireland,
I s rae l ,  I ta ly , Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaininq: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

21 The representative cf the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northerr.
Ireland made a statement in explanation of vote.

/ . . .



A/45/600
English
Page 3

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

7. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutionr

$&L.r.ration  from Non-Self-Gover inq Territories trew
under Article 73 e Q$ the Chaiter of the United Natioag

llaving examined the cha;ter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 Q of the Charter of the
United Nations 91 and the action taken by the Committee in respect of that
information,

Wing also examined the report of the Secretary-General on this item, A/

!&2&lling  its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee to study the information transmitted to the
Secretary-General in accordance with Article 73 e of the Charter and to take such
information fully into account in examining the situation with regard to the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960, as well as its resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960,

Recallinu  also its resolution 44163  of 11 December 1989, in which it requested
the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted to it under
resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Stressinq  the importance of timely transmission by the administering  Powers of
adequate information under Article 73 g of the Charter, in particular in relation
to the preparation by the Secretariat of the working papers on the Territories
concerned,

1. ApDrOVeS  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 Q  of the Charter of the
United Nations;

21 A/45/23 (Part V), chap. VIII.

Q/ A/45 /559 .

/ . . .



A/45/680
English
Page 4

2 . Jbeaffifw  that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of
self-government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 9 of the Charter
with respect to that Territoryr

3 . m the administering Powers concerned to transmit or continue to
transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 B of the
Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and
constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum Period
of six months following the expiration of tte administrative year in those
Tertitoriesj

4 . Beau- the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the
preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concernedt

5 . _Rpauem the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with
established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly at its forty-sixth
session.


