







































C'. G,! j :, /, i ill' i:s , ..,' ; ._ ORIGINAL: ENGLISH
r 1j.L _."C /.,./ ..

- ~ ~ ~
Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 31

I

ZONE OF PEACE AND CO-OPERATION OF THE SOUTH ATLANTIC

&nqola, Aroentina, Benin, Brasil, Cameroon, Cape Verde. Con=,
Côte d'Ivoire. Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia,
Namibia, Nicyeria. Sierra Leone, Seneaal, Tocro, Urusuay and

Zaire: draft resolution

The General Assemblv,

Recallinq its resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986, in which it solemnly
declared the Atlantic Otean, in the region situated between Africa and South
America, the "Zane of peace and co-operation of the South Atlantic",

Recallina also its resolution 42/16 of 10 November 1987, in which it urged
States of the region to continue their actions aiming at fulfilling the goals of
the declaration, especially through the adoption and implementation of specific
programmes for this purpose, its resolution 43/23 .of 14 November 1988, in which it
commended initiatives by States of the zone to promote peace and regional
co--operation in the South Atlantic, and its resolution 44/20 of 14 November 1989,
in which it note8 with appreciation the efforts of States of the zone towards
fulfilling the goals of the declaration,

Reaffirminq that the questions of peace and security and those of development
are interrelated and inseparable, anã considering that co-operation among al1
States, in particular those of the region, for peace and development is essential
to promote the objectives of the zone of peace and co-operation of the South
Atlantic,

Further reaffirminq the determination of the States of the zone to accelerate
their co-operation in political, economic, scientific, technical, cultural and
other spheres,

90-31960 27752 (E) / . . .



A/45/L.23
Engli.sh
Page 2

Aware of the importance that the States of the zone attach to the preservation
of the region's environment and recognizing the threat that pollution from any
source poses to the marine and coastal environment, its ecological balance and its
resources,

Also aware of the importance of the South Atlantic to global maritime and
commercial. transactions, and determined to preserve the region for al.1 activities
enshrined in relevant international law, including the freedom of navigation in the
high seas,

Notinq with satisfactim the various initiatives of the States of the zone to
contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the zone,

1. Q&&i note of the report subnmitted by the Secretary-General in
accordance with resolution 44/20; &/

2. Calls upon all States to co-operate in the promotion of the objectives of
peace and co-operation established in the declaration of the zone of peace and
co-operation of the South Atlantic and to refrain from any action inconsistent with
those objectives, as well as with the Charter and relevant resolutions of the
United Nations, particularly actions which may create or aggravate situations of
tension and potential conflict in the region;

3. Welcomes the holding of the second meeting of the States of the zone of
peace and co-operation of the South Atlantic at Abuja, Nigeria, from 25 to
29 June 1990, and takes note of the final document of the meeting;

4. Qrther welcomes the independence of Namibia, its admission as a member
of the community of the States of the zone and its participation in the activities
of the zone, and calls upon the international conununity to render necessary
assistance to Namibia in the areas of its defined needs in order to consolidate its
{ndependence and sovereignty;

5. Urges al1 States to abstain from transferring into and disposing within
the region hazardous, toxic and nuclear wastes and notes the determination of the
States of the zone to establish a mechanism aimed at monitoring, col.lating and
disseminating information and data on the movement of hazardous, toxic and nuclear
wastes within the region;

6. Emphasizes the imperative need to preserve the environment of the region
and urges al1 States to take the necessary measures in order to ensure its
protection from environmental damage;

-1 A/45/653.

/ . . .



A/45/C. 23
English
Page 3

7. Welcomes with appreciation the assistance that the Office for OCean
Affairs and the Law of the Sea and the United Nations Development Programme have
extended towards the convening by the States of the zone of a seminar of a group of
experts held at Brazzaville, from 12 to 15 June 1990, which was devoted to the
review of the development and implementation of the legal régime established by the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 2/ and looks forward to the
convening of the second seminar on the subject in Uruguay in 1991, particularly
with a view of its indication of specific areas for co-operation by the States of
the zone, on al1 common marine programmes;

8. Expresses support for the determination of the States of the zone that
technical co-operation among developing countries be recognized as activities
entitled to financing by the United Nations Development Programme, and requests the
United Nations as well as other relevant international bodies to assist the States
of the zone in the realization of their needs in this regard, at their request;

9. Also expresses support for the aspirations of the States of the zone to
make it an active instrument for fostering human rights, fundamental freedoms,
racial equality, justice and liberty as integral elements of peace, development and
co-operation at national and regional levels;

10. &quests the Secretary-General to keep the implementation of resolution
41/11 under review and to submit a report to the General Assembly at its
forty-sixth session, taking into account, inter alia, the views expressed by Member
States;

11. Decides to include in the'provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the item entitled, "Zone of peace and co-operation of the South Atlantic".

I - - - -

21 Official Records of the Third United N&ons Conference on the Law of the
a, vol. xvii (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.B4.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.


