
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr,GENERAL
A / 4 5 / 7 6 6
12 December 1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty- f i f th session
Agenda item 110

ENHANCING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRINCIPLE OF PERIODIC AND
GENUINE ELECTIONS

Helsort  o f  thflhird Cornmitt-

morteur-: Mr. Mario DE LEON (Philippines)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entit led “Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine
elect ions” and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2 . The Third C o m m i t t e a considered th i s item j o i n t l y with items 89, 93, 97, 105,
106 and 109 at its 25th to 42nd, 49th, Slst, 55th,  57th, 59th,  6 1 s t  a n d
62nd meetings, on 7 to 9, 12 to  14, 21, 23 and 28 to 30 November, and 3 and
4 December 1990. An account of the Committee’s general discussion of the item is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/45/SR.35-42).

3 . For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documentation:

(a)  Letter  dated 4  Apri l 1990 from the Chargb  d ’af faires  a.i. o f  the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations address?d  to the
Secretary-General (A/45/102-S/21230);

(b) Letter dated 5 April 1990 from the Charge d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the
Secre tary -Genera l  ( A / 4 5 / 2 0 3 - S / 2 1 2 3 1 ) ;

(c )  Letter  dated 6  Apri l  1990 from the Chargh d ’af faires  a.i. o f  the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/45/205-S/21236);

g o - 3 5 2 2 9  053YP  (E) / . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 6 6
English
Page 2

(d) Letter dated 9 April 1990 from the Chargb d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/45/207-S/21238);

(e) Letter  dated 19 Apri l  1990 from the Charqe d ’af faires  a.i. o f  the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/45/225-S/21256):

(f) L e t t e r  d a t e d  2 0  Apr i l  1990  f r o m  the  Charqt? d ’ a f fa i res  a.i. o f  the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the Unit.ed  Nations addressed to the
Secre tary -Genera l  ( A / 4 5 / 2 2 7 - S / 2 1 2 6 0 ) ;

(g) Letter dated 23 April 1990 from the Chargi d’affairos a,i. of the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/45/230-Si21268);

(h) Letter dated 24 April 1990 from the Char96  d’affaires n.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/45/254-S/21271):

(i) Letter dated 1 May 1990 from the Charge d’affaires a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
( 4 / 4 5 / 2 6 4 - S / 2 1 2 8 3 )  ;

(j) Latter dated 2 May 1990 from the Chargb  d’affairos a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/45/265-S/21284);

(k) Letter dated 3 May 1990 from the Chargb  d’affaires a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
( A / 4 5 / 2 6 6 - S / 2 1 2 8 5 ) :

(1) Letter dated 4 May 1990 from the Chargh d’affaires a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/45/267-S/21287);

(m) Letter dated 7 May 1990 from the Charqb  d’affai res a. i. of the Permanent
Mission of Israel t.o the IJnited Nations addressed tc the Secretary-General
(A/45/269-S/21268);

(n) Letter dated 8 May 1990 frorr the Charge d’affaires a,i. of the Permanent
Mission of Israel t? the United Nations addressed t.o the Secretary-Gpnernl
(A/45/270-S/21290);

(0) Letter  dated 9  May 1990 from the Chart$ d ’af faires  a.i. o f  the  Permanent
Mission of Israel to the United Natisns adclreFsed to the Secretary-General
(A/45/272-S/21293);

(p) Letter dated 16 May 1990 from the Permanent. Representative of Iraq to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/45 /280 and Corr.1);

/ .*.



A/45/766
English
Page 3

(q) Letter dated 10 October 1990 from the Head of the Delegation of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the forty-fifth session of the General Assembly
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/45/626-5/21869).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A.  Draf t  reso lu t ion  AK.31451L.56

4. At the 49th meeting, on 21 November, the representative of the United States
of America, on behalf of &,&ium. Bulsgyia. Canada, Czechoslovakia. El Salvadora
France.  Germanv,  Haiti.  HoQ&K.~.&  Hungwv. Italy, Janan.  Luxembourg,  Malta, Poland,
Portuoal,  Romania, Turkey,  the Q&ion of Soviet Socia ist ReDublics.  the &&w$

m of Great Britainand Northern  Ireland. the Uiited States of America and
msn~ introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/45/L.56)  entitled “Enhancing the
effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections”. Subsequently,
Waliq and Saint Kitts a.nd Nevb joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

5. At the 55th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of
Cuba and the United ReDublic of Tanz& and subsequently joined by Lesotho,
Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced the following amendments (A/C.3/45/L.96)  to the
draft resolution contained in document A/C.3/45/L.56:

“1, DaletR the second to fifth preambular paragraphs ard replace them by the
foliowingz

“Reaffirminq  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, A/ which provides
that everyone has the right to take part in the government of his or her
country, directly or through freely chosen representatives, that everyone has
the right of equal access to public service in his or her country, that the
will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government, and that
this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be
by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by
equivalent free voting procedures,

“poting that thet I n ernationel Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 21
provides that every citizen shall have the right and the opportunity, without
dist inct ion of  any kind,  such as race,  colour,  sex,  language,  rel igion,
pol i t ical  or  other  opinion, national  or  social  or igin,  property,  birth or
other status, to  take part  in  the conduct  of  publ ic  af fairs ,  direct ly  or
through freely chosen representatives, to vote and to be elected at genuine
periodic elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be
held by secret ballot, guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the
e l e c t o r s , and to have access, on general terms of equality, to public service
in his or her country,

‘IL/ Reso lut i on  217  A (IIT).

“21 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 4

“m the syst.em  of @art&&J and any other denial or abridgement
of the right to vote on the groundo of race, colour, sex, language, religion,
pol i t ical  or  other  opinion, national  or  social  or igin,  property,  birth or
other status,

“D that the tricameral  parliament established under the system
of m is a gross violation of the principle of universal and equal
suffrage and has been overwhelmingly rejected by the international community,

“n that all States enjoy sovereign equality and that each State
has the right freely to choose and develop its political, social, economic and
cultural systems,

“mu that there is no single political system or electoral method
that is equally suited to all nations and their people,

“R,Rcallinq  its resolutions 431157 of 8 December 1988 and 441146 of
15 December 1989,“r

“2. De1et.R  operative paragraphs 1 to 4 and replace them by the following:

“1 . Underscorea  the significance of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which
establish that the authority to govern shall be based on the will of the
people, as expressed in periodic and genuine elections;

I, 2. Stresses its conviction that periodic and genuine elections are a
necessary and indispensable element of sustained efforts to protect the rights
and interests of the governed and that, as a matter of practical experience,
the right of everyone to take part in the government of his or her country is
a crucial factor in the effective enjoyment by all of a wide range of other
human rights and fundamental freedoms, embracing political, economic, social
and cultural rightst

“3 . Declarea that determining the will of the people requires an
electoral process that provides an equal opportunity for all citizens to
become candidates and put forward their political views, individually and in
co-operation with others within the constitution and national legislation1

“4. Recoanioea  that  the ef forts  of  the international  community to
enhance the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections
should not call into question each State’s sovereign right freely to choose
and  deve lop  i t s  po l i t i ca l ,  s o c ia l , economic and cultural systems, whether or
not they conform to the preferences of other States]

“5. Underscores the duty of each member of the international community
to respect the decisions taken by other States in freely choosing and
developing their  e lectoral  inst itutions;

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 5

“6. mffira that aaarthela must be abolished, that the systematic
denial or abridgement of the right to vote on the grounds of race or colour is
a gross violation of human rights and an affront to the conscience and dignity
of mankind, and that the right to participate in a political system based on
common and equal citiaenship and universal franchise is essential  for the
exercise of the principle of periodic and genuine electionst

“7. R&&a the tricameral parliament established under the system of
WartheM as an abhorrent expression of a fundamentally oppressive and
flagrantly inhuman political system3

“8. Calls uooq the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-seventh
session, to continue its consideration of appropriate ways and means of
enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine
e l e c t i ons , in the context of full respect for the sovereignty of Member
States, and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session,
through the Economic and Social Council;“r

II 3. Renumbet  former operative paragraph 5 as paragraph 9.”

At the 59th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of the United States
L introduced the following amendments (A/C.3/45/L.99)  to the amendments
proposed in document A/C.3/45/L.96:

(a) Insert a new preambular paragraph between the sixth and seventh
preambular paragraphs propose19  in document A/C.3/45/L.96r

“-note of the Secretary-General’s observations concerning United
Nations support for elections in Member States, as presented in his report on
the work of the organisation, J/t

“31 A / 4 5 / 1 .  ”

(b) a the words “as well as Commission on Human Rights resolution 1989151
of 7 March 1989” at the end of the last preambular paragraph proposed in document
A/C.3/45/L.96#

(c) kaplacg  the words “Delete operative paragraphs 1 to 4” in the second
amendment proposed in document A1C.31451L.96  by the words “Insert the following
operative paragraphs: “1

(d) Replace  the words “within the constitution and national  legislat ion”  in
operative paragraph 3 proposed in document A1C.31451L.96  by the words “as provided
in national constitutions and laws”r

(e) Delete operative paragraph 8 of A1C.31451L.961

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 6

( f) &&&,g~  the words “Renumber former operative paragraph 5 as paragraph 9”.
aa proposed in the third amendment of document A/C.3/45/L.96,  by the words
“Renumber former operative paragraphs 1 to 5 as paragraphs ll to 12”1

(g) W a new fourth amendment to documsut A/C.3/45/L.96,  in which the word
“needs” in operative paragraph 9 (former operative paragraph 2 of A1C.31451L.56)
would be replaced by the word “requests”.

7. At the 61st meeting, on 3 December, before action was taken on draft
resolution A/C.3/45/L.56  and the amendments thereto (A/C.3/45/L.96)  and the
amendments to A/C.3/45/L.96  (k/C.3/45/L.99),  statements in explanation of vote,
before the vote, were made by the representatives of Colombia, Italy, Poland, Peru,
Ecuador, China, Mexico, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Cuba, Zimbabwe and
Germany.

8. The Committee then proceeded to take action on the draft proposals as follows:

(a) The amendments in document A/C.3/45/L.99  were adopted by a recorded vote
of 82 to 18, with 18 abstentions. The voting was as followsr  I/

I n  favour1 Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, C6t.e d’Ivoire,  Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland.. Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta,
Mauritania, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Phil ippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Samoa, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

Aaainstr Angola, Burkina Faso, Burundi, China, Cuba, Ghana, Iran (Islamic
Republic  of ) , Lesotho, Mali, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nigeria, Sudan,
Swaziland, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe,

Abstentions: Bhutan, Cameroon, Colombia, Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gabon,
India, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Niger,
Peru, Viet Nam, Yemen.

11 The representatives of Sierra Leone and Lebanon stated that they had made
an error in their vote on the amendments in A/C.3/45/L.99: Sierra Leone had voted
in favour, but had intended to abstain; Lebanon had abstained, but had intended to
vote in favour.

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 7

(b) The amendments in document A/C.3/45/L.96,  as amended, were adopted by a
recorded vote of 120 votes to none, with nine abstentions. Statements were made
before the vote by the representatives of Cuba and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland. The voting was as follows:

Infavourt Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, CSte d’fvoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican  Republic, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary,  Iceland,  Indonesia,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel ,  Italy ,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar,
Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet So?ialiat  Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe,

&stentionsr China, Colombia, Ecuador, Gabon, India, Liberia, Mexico,
Nigeria, Peru.

9. The Committee then proceeded to vote on draft resolution A/C.3/45/L.56  as
amended, as a whole, as follows:

(a) In a separate recorded vote, the new eighth preambular paragraph was
adopted by 96 votes to 11, with 12 abstentions;

In favour; Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana , Brazi l ,  Bulgaria,  Byelorussian Soviet  Social ist
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile ,  Costa Rica,  CGte  d’Ivoire,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Hcinduras,  Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jama!.ca, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldivss,
Malta, Mauritania, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand..
Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,

I / . . .
A.



A/45/766
English
Pcge 8

Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

-8 Angola, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Cuba, Mali, Myanmar,  Uganda,
United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

St Cameroon, Colombia, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, India, Mexico,
Mongolia, Niger, ! Lgeria,  Peru, Swaziland.

(b) In a separate  recorded vote , new operative paragraph 10 (operative
paragraph 3 of A/C.3/45/L.56), was adopted by 85 votes to 12, with 15 abstentions.
The voting was as followor

Xnfavourl Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Braoil,
Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada*  Cape
Verde, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kuwait, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Malta, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Phil ippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Samoa, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zair6.

Against: Angola, Burkina Faso, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Iran
(1sla;~i.c  Reprlblic  of), Mali, Myanmar, United Republic of
Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

wntiongr Algeria, Cameroon, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, India,
Mexico, Mongolia, Niger, Nigeria, Peru, Sudan, Swaailand, Uganda.

(c )  In  a  separate  recorded vote , new operative paragraph 11 (operative
paragraph 4 of A/C.3/45/L.56)  was adopted by 88 votes to 12, with 14 abstentions.
The voting was as follows!

/ . . .



A/45/366
English
Page 9

Ln.: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, BahaJnaS~
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet  SOCialiSt
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, CyptUsr
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti,
Honduras,  Hungary, Iceland,  Indonesia,  Ireland,  Israel ,  Italy ,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mald!ves,  Malta, Mauritania, Morocco,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Samoa, Senegal, Singapore,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

-8 Angola, Burkina Faso, China, Colombia, Cuba, Iran (Islamic
Republic  of ) , Mali, Myanmar,  Sudan, United Republic of Tanmania,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Ah-, Cameroon, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, India, Iraq, Mexico,
Mongolia, Niger, Nigeria, Peru, Swaailand,  Uganda.

(d) Draft  resolution A/C.3/45/L.56  as a  whole , as amended, was adopted by a
recorded vote of 106 votes to 9, with 12 abstentions (see para.  21 below, draft
reso lu t i on  I ) . The voting was as follows: 21

Tn_fevsurr Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Argentina,  Austral ia,  Austr ia,  BBhamasr
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belrin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Costa Rica, C6te d’lvoire,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, FranC6, Germany, Greece.
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary,  Iceland,  Indonesia,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel,  I ta ly,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, PhClippines,  Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,  Spain,

2/ The representatives of Mauritania and the Congo stated that they had made
an error in their vote on draft resolution A1C.31451L.56 as a whole, as amended2
Mauritania had voted against it, but had intended to vote in favour2  the Congo had
abstained but had intended to vote in favour.

/ . . I



A/45/766
English
Page 10

Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of l,nsania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

Aaainstr Angola, Burkina Faso, China, Cuba, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Myanmar.

Br Durundi, Cameroon, C lombia, Congo, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana,
India, Mexico, Niger, Peru, Ug;.nda.

10. At the 62nd meeting, on 4 December, statements in explanation of vote, after
the vote, on draft resolution A1C.31451L.56 as a whole, as amended, were made by
the representatives of India, Panama, Nicaragua, Pakistan,  Bolivia and Braoil.

11. At the same meeting, with respect to voting on the amendments contained in
documents A/C.3/45/L.99 ~.*q A/C.3/45/L.96  as amended, the Chairman informed the
Committee that votes &,.rr  cast on behalf c; a Member State that had been included
by the Secretary-General ir! the list of t:lr>se Member States which were in arrears
in accordance with Article 19 of the Charter of the United Nations in the payment
of their financial contributions to the Organization.  31 Such Member States had,
pursuant to Article 19, no vote in the General Assembly. Accordingly, the votes
cast by the Member State concerned should not have been recorded. The Chairman
further stated that the technical error did not affect the results of the votes
which remained valid and stood as announced.

B. D:aft reso lu t i on  A/C.3/45/L.56

12. At the 49th meeting, on 21 November, the representative of Sweden, on behalf
of Australia, Austria, Belaium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France. Gormanv,  Greece,
Hungary. Iceland, Ireland, Italv, Luxemboura. the mherlands. Norway, Poland,
P’S.r.&utua  Snain. Sweden and the United Kin9d m r
l.r_el_a_nd,  introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/45/L.56)  entitled “Respect for the
wil l  o f  the people  of  Myanmar”. Subsequently, Panama joined in sponsoring the
draft  resolution, which read as follows:

31 A/45/515 and Add.l-3.

/ ..*



A/45/766
English
Page 11

“w by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights A/ and the International Covenants
on Human Rights, 21

II .rrmina that all Member States have an obligation tc> promote and
protect humar.  rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations
they have undertaken under the various international instruments in this field,

“-a t&& the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides that
everyone has the right to take part in the government of his or her country,
directly or through freely chosen representatives, that the will of the people
shall be the basis 0;: the authority of government and that this will shall be
expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and
equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting
procedures,

“v that elections were held on 27 May 1990 in Myanmar,

“&gretfitng that the new national assembly reflecting the rmults of
these elections has not been convened and that a number of politically active
persons have been detained,

“1. -es itk_Concern, that the will of the people of Myanmar, as
manifested in the elections held on 27 May 1990, has not been implemented;

“ 2 .  Stressesuay.&u@ in  this  context  that  al l  c i t izens detained
with respect to their political  activities ought to be released immediately
and restored to the full enjoyment of their right to participate in the
government of their country1

II 3. Requesta the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-sixth session on the implementation of the present resolution in all
i ts  aspects,

“JJ Resolution 217 A (III).

“2/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.”

13. At the 57th meeting, on 29 November, after a statement by the representative
of Myanmar, the representative of Japan orally proposed that draft resolution
A/C.3/45/L.50  be deferred for consideration by the General Assembly at its
forty-s ixth session.

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft decision orally proposed
by the representative of Japan (see para. 22 below).

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 12

15. After the adoption of the draft decision, the representative of Sweden made a
statement.

C .  )&&it  r-on A/C3/45/7,,59

At the 49th meeting, on 21 November,
1

the representative of Cuba, on behalf of
the L&.&m Arab Je the Nublic of

Tanaeniel~emem  and 23.mbW~ introduced a draft resolution (AX.31451L.59)
entitled “Respect for the principles of national sovereignty arrd non-interference
fn the internal  affairs  of  States  in their  e lectoral  processes” .  Subsequently ,
&g& joined in sponsoring the draft resolutf.on.

17. At the 62ad meeting, on 4 December, the representative of Cuba orally revised
the draft resolution by adding a final preambular paragraph to read as follows:

. nq its resolution 441147 of 15 December 1989,“.

18. At the same meeting, statements before the vote were made by the
representatives of Italy (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are members of the European Community) and Panama.

19. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/45/L.59,  as  Oral ly  revised, by a recorded vote of 94 vote5 to 32, with 7
abstentions (See para. 21,  draft  resolution II ) . The voting was as follows:

In; Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darusealam,  Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
C8te d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,  Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yuooslavia,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaaina: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel ,  I taly ,  Japan,  Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain ar.d Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 13

Abstentione: Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cyprus, El Salvador,
Malta, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Social ist  Republics ,  Zaire .

20. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of El Salvador
made a statement.

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

21. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions8

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

inu the ei fectivm of  t&&gbci~la
Gf ImrioClic and cmu.i.m elwG2xui

M of its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to develop
friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights
and self-determination of peoples and to promote and encourage respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

Reaffirmincr  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 41 which provides that
everyone has the right to take part in the government of his or her country,
directly or through freely chosen representatives, that everyone has the right of
equal access to public service in his or her country, that the will of the people
shall be the basis of the authority of government, and that this will shall be
expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal
suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures,

u that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 5/
provides that every cftfaen shall have the right and the opportunity, without
dist inct ion of  any kind,  such as race,  colour,  sex,  language,  rel igion,  pol i t ical
or other opinion, national  or  social  or ig in,  property ,  b irth or  other  status,  to
take part in the conduct of public affairs, directly or through freely chosen
representatives, to vote and to be elected at genuine periodic elections which
shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret ballot,
guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the electors, end to have access,
on general terms of equality, to public service in his or her country,

91 Resolution 217 A (III).

51 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 14

ww the system of Esaartheid and any other denial or abridgement of the
right to vote on the grounds of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or
other opinion, national  or  social  or igin,  property,  birth or  other  status,

wrb that the tricamerel  parliament established under the system of
m is a gross violation of the principle of universal and equal suffrage and
has been ?.Ju..  whelmingly re jetted by the international community,

&~&LLD~  that all States enjoy sovereign equality and that each State has the
right freely to choose and develop its political, social, economic and cultural
systems,

v that there is no single political system or electoral method that
is equally suited to all nations and their people,

-a note of the Secretary-General’s observations concerning United Nations
support for elections in Member States, as presented in his report on the work of
t h e  Organization, 61

m i t s resolutions 431157 o f 8 December 1988 and 44/146 of
15 December 1989, as well as Commission on Human Rights resolution 1969/51 of
7 March 1989,

1. -4 the Jignificance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which establish that
the authority to govern shall be based on the will of the people, as expr8ssed in
periodic and genuine elections;

2. es its GQnviction  that periodic and genuine elections are a
necessary and indispensable element of sustained efforts to protect the rights and
interests of the governed and that, as a matter of practical experience, the right
of everyone to take part in the government of his or her country is a crucial
factor in the effective enjoyment by all of a wide range of other human rights and
fundamental freedoms. embracing political, economic, Racial and cultural  rightst

3, Declares that determining the will of the people requires an electoral
process that provides an equal opportunity for all citizens to become candidates
and put forward their political views, individually and in co-operation with
others, as provided in national constitutions and laws:

4. mgnizm that the efforts of the international community to enhance the
effectiveness of the principle oi: periodic and genuine elections should not call
into question 8aCh State’s sovereign right freely to choose and develop its
p o l i t i c a l ,  s o c i a l , economic and cultural systems, whether OK not they conform to
the Pr8f8r8nCeS Of other States;

61 pfficial Records of the Gfieral Assembly, Forty-fifth Session, SuDw,lement
No, 1 (A/45/1).

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 15

5. Wrscorea  the duty of each member of the international community to
respect the deCiSiOA8 taken by other States in freely choosing and developing their
e l e c to ra l  institutionsi

6. Reaffirms that w.i$$ must be abolished, that the systematic denial  or
abridgement of the right to vote on the grounds of rac8 or colour is a gross
violation of human rights and an affront to the conscience and dignity of mankind,
and that the right to participate in a political system based on common and equal
citiaenship  and universal franchise is essential for the exercise of the principle
of periodic and genuine elections;

&j.B&&  the tricameral parliament established under th8 system of
as an abhorrent expression of a fundamentally oppressive and flagrantly

inhuman political systemj

8. Affirma the value of the electoral assistance that the United Nations has
provided at the request of Member States, in the context of full respect for their
sovereigntyt

9. Believes that the international community should continue to give serious
consideration to ways in which the United Nations can respond to the requests of
Member  States as they seek to promote and strengthen their electoral institutions
and proceduresr

10. v the Secretary-General to S88k the views of Member  States,
specialised agencies, other competent bodies of the United Nations system and those
with specific expertise in this area concerning Suitable  approaches that will
permit the Organization  to respond to the requests of Member States for electoral
assistancet

I

11. Reauesta  the Secretary-General to report his findings to the General
Assembly at its forty-sixth session, together with an account of United Nations
experience in election monitoring, within exist ing resources$

12. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the item entitled “Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and
genuine elections”,

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Resw c t  0  t h e  w r i n c i w l e s  o f  nationa s o v e r e  a n t v  and8 f r * 1 i
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of States  in

t h e i r  8leCtOral wroC8ss8q

Th.eGanarBl

Reaffirminq the purposes of the United Nations to develop friendly relations
among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples and to take other appropriate measures to strengthen
universal peace,

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 16

m its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 DQCemb8r  1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

&J,.so  ra its resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, by which it
approved the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly
Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations,

Further reu the principle enshrined in Article 2, paragraph 7, of the
Charter of the United Nations, which 8stablishes  that nothing contained in the
Charter shall authorise the United  Nations to intervene in matters which are
essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State or shall require the
Mambers to submit such matters to settlement under the Charter,

Reaffitminll th8 legitimacy of the struggle of the oppressed people of South
Africa for  the el imination of eoartheia and for the establishment of a society in
which all the people of South Africa as a WhOl8,  irrespective of rac8, colour or
creed,  wil l  enjoy equal  and ful l  pol i t ical  and other r ights  and partic ipate freely
in the determination of their destiny,

usa rem the legitimacy of the struggle of all peoples under colonial
and foreign domination, particularly the Palestinian people, for the exercise of
their inalienable right to self-determination and national ind8p8ndenCe, which wili
enable them to decide freely on their own future,

m that the principles of national sovereignty and non-interference
in the internal affairs of any State should be respected  in the holding of
elections,

Also recow that there is no single political system or single mod81 for
electoral processes equally suited to all nations and their peoples, and that
political systems and electoral proc8ss8s  are subject to historical, political,
cultural and religious factors,

m its resolution 44/147 of 15 December  1989,

1. Reiterate6 that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, all
peoples have the right, freely and without external interference, to determine
their political status and to pursue their economic, social and cultural
development, and that every State has the duty to respect that right in accordance
with the provisions of the Charter;

2. Affiru that it is the conc8rn solely of peoples to determine methods and
to establish institutions regarding the electoral proc8s8, as well as to determine
the ways for its implementation according to their constitutional and national
l eg i s la t i on ;

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 17

3. Also affirm that any extraneous activities that attempt, directly or
indirect ly ,  to  interfere  in the free  development of  national  e lectoral  processear
in particular in the developing countries, or that intend to sway the results Of
such processes, violate  the spir it  and letter  of  the principles  establ ished in the
Charter and in the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning
Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of
the United National

4 . !,?zg,~  all States to respect the principle of non-interference in the
internal affairs of States and the sovereign right of peoples to determine their
p o l i t i c a l , economic and social systems

5. B.KQQ~ to all States to abstain from financing or providing,
direct ly  or indirect ly ,  any other form of  overt  or  covert  support  for  pol i t ical
parties or groups and from taking actions to undermine the electoral processes in
any country2

6. Condemns any act of armed aggression or threat or use of force against
peoples, their elected Governments or their legitimate leadersl

7 . Solemdv deem that only the total eradication of m and the
establishment of a non-racial, democratic society based on majority rule, through
the full and free exercise of adult suffrage by all the people in a united and
non-fragmented South Africa, can lead to a just and lasting solution to the
explosive situation in South Africa;

8. Reaffiuna the legit imacy of  the struggle of  al l  peop&es under colonial
and foreign domination, particularly the Palestinian people, for the exercise of
their inalienable right to self-determination and national independence, which will
enable them to determine their political, economic and social system, without
external  irterferencej

9. Calls uoon the Commission on Huts;an Rights, at  i ts  forty-seventh session,
to give priority to the review of the fundamental factors that negatively affect
the observance of tile principle of national sovereignty and non-interference in the
internal  af fairs  of  States  in  their  e lectoral  processes ,  and to  report  to  the
General Assembly at its forty-sixth session, through the Econoi,lic  and Social
Count i 1 I

10. Reuuest@  the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
forty-sixth session on the implementation of the present resolution under the item
entitled “Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine
e l e c t i ons ” .

* l *

22. The Third Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the followilbg draft  decis ion:

/ . . .



A/45/766
English
Page 10

at for  the  wi l l  of- DeQple  of  Mvw

The General Assembly decides to dofer until its forty-sixth session
consideration of  the draft  resolution (A/C.3/45/L.58)  entit led “Respect  for  the
wil l  o f  the people  of  Myanmar”.


