
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A / 4 5 / 7 0 4
26 November 1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 62

ISRARLI NUCLEAR ARMAMENT

ort of the Firmttea

-g or. Latbi Modem LAWSON-BETUM  (Togo)

I. INTRODUCTION . .

1. The item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament” was included in the provisional
agenda of the forty-fifth session of the General Assnbly  in accordance with
Assembly resolution 44!121 of 15 December 1989.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October 1990, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 45 to 66.
At its 4th meeting, on 16 October, the First Committee decided to consider jointly
with other disarmament items agenda item 155, which was allocated to the First
Committee upon a decision of the General Assembly at its 30th plenary meeting, on
15 October. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
23rd meetings, from 15 to 30 October (see A/C.1/45/PV.3-23). Consideration of an
action on draft resolutions on those items took place between the 24th and
39th meetings, from 2 to 16 November (see A/C.1/45/PV.24-39).

4 . In connection with item 62, the First Committee had before it the following
documents8

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli nuclear armament (A/45/574);

(b) Letter dated 19 September 1990 from the Pe;manent  Representative of Egypt
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of

go-32407 0467P !E) / . . .



A/45/704
English
Page 2

the documents adopted by the Nineteenth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers,
held at Cairo from 31 July to 5 August 1990 (A/45/421-S/21797).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/45/L.45  AND REV.1

5. On 31 October, USBahrain.Kuwait, L ran. the La
Arab J-a. Mwitania. Morocco. Qatar. Saudi Arabia. Somali& the al!, the

Arab m
.

Tunisrg , the Ynited Arab Emirates and Yemen submitted a draft
resolution entitled “Israeli nuclear armament” (A/C. U451L.45). The draft
resolution read as follows:

"Rearina inmind  its previeus resolutions on Israeli nucleai armament,
the latest of which is resolution 441121  of 15 December 1989,

I’- its resolution 441108  of 15 December 1989, in which,
m, it called for placing all nuclear facilltitis  in the region under
International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, pending the establishment of a
nuclear-weapoa-free aone in the Middle East,

“Rscallinu  a SO Security Council resolution 487 (1981) of 19 June 1981,
in which, hter a:ip, the Council called upon Israel urgently to place all its
nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards,

"potinq that only Israel has been specifically called upon by the
Security Council to place its nuclear facilities under International Atomic
Energy Agency safeguards,

I, ina with arave concern Israel’s persistent refusal to commit itself
not to manufacture or acquire nuclear weapons, despite repeated calls by the
General Assembly, the Security Council and the International Atomic Energy
Agency,

II ina into consideration resolution GC (lMCIV)/Res/526 of
21 September 1990 adopted by the General Conference of the International
Atomic Energy Agency, in which the General Conference deprecated Israel's
continuous refusal to place all its nuclear facilities under the Agency’s
safeguards and called upon Israel to comply with Security Council resolution
417 (1981),

II Also takina into consideration the final document on international
security and disarmament of the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1989, &/ in paragraph 12 of which Israel was condemned for

“21 See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

/ . . .



A/45 /704
English
Page 3

continuing to develop its nuclear military programmes and weapons of mass
destruction and for its refusal to implement the resolutions of the United
Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency in this regard,

“Deeolv alarmed by the information with regard to the continuing
production, development and acquisition of nuclear weapons by Israel and its
testing of their delivery systems in the Mediterranean, thus threatening the
peace and security of the region,

“Aware of the grave consequences that endanger international peace and
seturity as a result of Israel’s development and acquisition of nuclear
weapons and Israel’s collaboration with South Africa to develop nuclear
weapons and their delivery systems,

“Deeoly concerned that the declared Israeli policy of attacking and
destroying nuclear facilities devoted to peaceful purposes is a part of its
nuclear armament policy,

“1 Reiterates its c6ndemnatioq of Israel’s refusal to renounce any
possessron of nuclear weapons:

“2 l Reiterates also its co- of the co-operation between Israel
and South Africa:

“3, DQ at Israel’s continuing production,Ex r
development and acquisition of nuclear weapons and testing of their delivery
systems;

“4. wmcr the Security Council to take urgent and effective
measures to ensure that Israel complies with Council resolution 487 (1981);

“5. Demands once more that Israel place all its nuclear facilities under
International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards;

I, 6
discont
field:

II 7
suspend

Calls uDon  all States and organisations  that have not yet done so to
nue co-operating with and giving assistance to Israel in the nuclear

Reiterates its reauest to the International Atomic Energy Agency to
any co-operation with Israel that could contribute to its nuclear

capabilities;

II 8. Requests also the International Atomic Energy Agency to inform the
Secretary-General of any steps Israel may take to place its nuclear facilities
under Agency safeguards:

I# 9. Reuuests the Secretary-General to follow closely Israeli nuclear
activities and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth
session:

/ . . .



A/45/784
English
Page 4

“10. w to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth
session the item entitled ‘Israeli nuclear armwnent’  .I*

6. On 14 November,  Algeria, Bahraiuibouti,  Eovt% Jordan. Kuwait.T,ebanon #
the &&Y&E  Arab Jvitda. mocco, Mar. Saudi Ara
Somalia, the &,&B, the -Arab &public. Tw, the -Arab & and
Yemen submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/45/L.45/Rev.l).

7. At its 38th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.45/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 84 to 2, with 38 abstentions (SQ~
para. 8 ) . The voting was as follcvsr

Xnfavour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail,
Brunei Darussalam,  Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, E;hiopia,  Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau I Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Repub1J.c  Of), I raq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Ma& Jar, Malaysia, Wldives,  Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, hdrocco,  tioaambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Syrian A*:& Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanaania,
Veneluela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainat z Israel, United States of America.

$&staining8 Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile,
Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Kenya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Samoa, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Uruguay.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The General Assembly,

Bearina in mind its mrevious resolutions on Israeli nuclear armament, the
latest of which is resolutjsr. 441121 of 15 December 1989,

/ . . .



A/45/784
English
Page 5

Recalli& its resolution 44/108  of 15 December 1989, in which, titer al& it
called for placing all nuclear facilities in the region under International Atomic
Energy Agency safeguards, pending the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free aone
in the Middle East,

&Cal ina also Security Council resolution 487 (1981) of 19 June 1981, in
whid., wir alia, the Council called upon Israel urgently to place all its nuclear
facilitiss under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards,

Notialg that only Israel has been specifically called upon by the Security
Council to place its nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency
safeguards,

-with Israel’s persistent refusal to commit itself not to
manufacture or acquire nu:lear weapons, despite repeated calls by the General
Assembly, the Security Council and the International Atomic Energy Agency,

Notinq resolution CC (XXXIV)/Res/526  of 21 September 1990 adopted by the
General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency,

-into consideratiog  the final document on international security and
disarmament adopted by the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, A/ in
paragraph 12 of which Israel was condemned for continuing to develop its nuclear
military programmes and weapons of mass destruction and for its refusal to
implement the resolutions of the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy
Agency in this regard,

WY al- by the information with regard to the continuing production,
development and acquisition of nuclear weapons by Israel and its testing of their
delivery systems in the Mediterranean, thus threatening the peace and security of
the region,

Aware of .Lhe grave consequences that endanger international peace and security
as a result of Israel’s development and acquisition of nuclear weapons and Israel’s
collaboration with South Africa to develop nuclear weapons and their delivery
sys terns,

DeeDlY concern that Israel has not committed itself to refrain from
attacking or threatening to attack safeguarded nuclear facilities,

1. Reiterates its condemnation of Israel’s refusal to renounce any
possession of nuclear weapons;

2. Reiterates also its condemnation of the co-operation between Israel and
South Africa in the military field;

L/ See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

/ . . .



A/45/704
English
Page 6

3. Erraresses its deer, uon(=8rn  regarding the information of ISrael’S
continuing probction, development and acquisition of nuclear weapons and testing
of their delivery systemsi

4. Reaffirms that Israel should promptly apply Security Council resolution
487 (19811, in which the Council, in-, requests it to place all nuclear
facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards and to refrain from
attacking o!: threatening to attack nuclear facilities1

5. CD all States an8 organiaations  that have not yet done so not to
co-operate with or give assistance to Israel that could enhance its nuclear-weapons
capabilityt

6. BBguesta the International Atomic Energy Agency to inform the
Secretary-General of any steps Israel may take to place its nuclear facilities
under Agency safeguardsr

7. Rm the Secretary-General to follow closely Israeli nuclear
activities and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session1

0. Pecidea to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth sessitin
the item entitled “Israeli nuclear armameiit”.

I----


