
















































UNITED A
NATION8

Qendral P$aembly Dietr.
GENERAL

A/45/732
21 November 1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty- f i f th  seosion
Agenda item 137

CONSIDERATION OF EFFECTIVE MEASURES TO ENHANCE THE PROTECTION,
SECURITY AND SAFETY OF DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR MISSIONS AND

REPRESENTATIVES

Bar;lBnartaYr: Mr. Saeid MIRZAEE-YENGEJEH (Islamic Republic of Iran)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled “Consideration of effective measures to enhance the
protection, security and safety of diplomatic and consular mission8 and
representatives” was included in the agenda of the forty-f ifth session of  the
General Assembly pursuant to paragraph 10 of General Assembly resolution 431167  of
9 December 1988.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of thu General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connection with the item, the Sixth Committee had before it a report of the
Secrotery-General (A/45/455 and Add. l-3), submitted pursuant to paragraph 9 of
resolution 43/167,  containing the reports and the views presented by States under
paragraphs 8 and 9 of that resolution and paragraphs 9 and 11 of resolution 42/154
of 7 December 1987, as well as information submitted in accordance with
paragraphs 12 and 9 of resolutions 421154 and 431167 respectively, on the state, as
at 15 August 1990, if ratification of and accessions to the Vienna Convention on
Diplomatic Relations of 1961, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963
and thr respective Optional Protocols thereto, ue well as the Convention of 1973 on
the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons,
including Diplomatic Agents. The following communication has also been circulated
under the item8 letter dated 27 Jura 1990 from the Permanent Representative of
Chad to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/45/325).

go-32015 0439P  (E)



A / 4 5 / 7 3 2
English
Page 2

4. The Committee considered the item at its Sth, dth, 7th and 45th meetings, on
25 and 26 September, 2 October and 20 November 1991). The summary records of those
meetings contain the views of representatives who spoke during the consideration of
the item (A/C.6/45/SR.5-7 and 45).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A .  baft r-A/C. 6/45/L.u

5. At the 45th meeting, on 20 November 1990, the representative of Finland
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.6/45/L.15), entitled “Consideration of effective
measures to enhance the protection and safety of diplomatic and consular missions

.and representatives”, sponsored by -Austtalia. Bow
Caechoslovakia..DeM1arkl  F i n l a n d ,  Gesv. I,.caW&  J&B..

w, Swe&n. Tuw ,

6. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C!.6/45/L,15  by a
recorded vote of 120 votes to 1, with no abstentions (see pare. 10). The voting
was as follows8

Irat Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,
Braail, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Byeloruesian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba,
Cyprus, Caachoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Eieaau, Guyana,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Ire land ,  Iurael, Italy, Jsmaica,  Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
I,ao  People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya,  Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru,  Phil ippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Suriname, Swaailand, Swede*l, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain arrd Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Bhstaiut N o n e .



A/45/732
English
Page 3

7, Statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the
representative& of Italy (speaking on behalf of ti.s Twelve State: members of the
European Community), the United States, Canada, Iraq, Yemen, Argentina, Saudi
Arabia and Bahrain.

B .  l&aft rew A/C.6/_45/L.14

8. At the 45th meeting, on 20 November, the Sixth Committee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.6/45/L.14), entitled “Consideration of effective measures to
enhance the protection and safety of diplomatic and consular missions and
representatives’0 , sponsored by Kuwait, which read as followst

“u CQ- the report of the Secretary-General, l/

@‘-Ati that respect  for  the principles and rules of  international  law
governing diplomatic and consular relations is a basic prerequisite for the
normal conduct of relations among States and for the fulfilment of the
purpoeos and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

“Alarmed  by the repeated acts of violence by Iraq against diplomatic and
consular missions and representatives, as  wel l  as  against  representatives  to
international and intergovernmental organisations and officials of such
organiaationa, which endanger or take innocent lives and seriously impede the
normal work of such representatives and officials,

“m with Security Council resolutions 664 (1990) of
18 August 1990 and 667 (1990) of 16 September 1990 regarding the closure by
Iraq of diplomatic and consular missions in Kuwait and Kuwait1 missions in
Iraq and the revoking of the immunity and privileges of these rliissions  and
t h e i r  s t a f f ,

“D that the decision of Iraq to order the closure of diplomatic
and consular missions in Kuwait and to withdraw the immunity and privileges of
these missions and their personnel is contrary to the Vienna Convention on
Diplomatic Relations of X8 April 1961 2/ and the Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations of 24 April 1963 91 and relevant decisions of the Security Council
and international law,

11 A/45/455 and AddB1-3.

21 United Nations, z-Series, vo l . 500, p* 95.

a/ m., vol .  596, p. 2 6 1 .
/ l . .



A/45/732
English
Page 4

“1. #QQ@~  cm the acts  of  aggress ion against  diplomatic  and
consular missions and representatives in Kuwait and Iraqr

“2 . nemanda that Iraq immediately protect the safety and well-being of
diplomatic and consular personnel and premises in Kuwait and in Iraq and take
no action to hinder the diplomatic and consular miesione  in the performance of
their functions, including access to their nationals and the protection of
their person and interests. This includes the right of free passage of
diplomatic and consular personnel travelling from or to the sending State.”

9. At the same meeting, the representative of Kuwait withdrew the draft
resolution.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

10, The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of t.he
fol lowing draft  resolutiont

Thet .
TV the report of the Secretary-General, 41

&.W of the need to develop and strengthen friendly relations and
co-operation among States,

cm- that respect for the principles and rules of international law
governing diplomatic and consular relations is a basis prerequisite for the normal
conduct of relations among States and for the fulfilment of the purposes and
principles of the Charter of the Uni’.ed Nations,

Am by the repeated acts of violence against diplomatic and consular
r e p r e s e n t a t i v e s , as wel l  as  against  representatives  to  international
intergovernmental organisations  and officials of such organisations,  which endanger
or take innocent lives and seriously impede the normal work of such representatives
and of f i c ia l s ,

w Security Council resolutions 664 (1990) of 18 August 1990,
667 (1990) of 16 September 1990 and 674 (1990) of 29 October 1990 regarding,
iLlml.xmaaial certain recent flagrant violatiions  of international law concerning the
protect ion, security and safety of diplomatic and consular missions and
representatives ,

41 A/45/455 and Add. l-3.
/ . . .



A/45/732
English
Page 5

M&&$&l  of the universal condemnation of those violations during the debate in
the Sixth Committee,

Cs& at the abuse of diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities,
part icularly i f  acts  of  violence are involved,

m&w the duty of States to take all appropriate measures ae required by
international law, including me&sure8  of a preventive nature, and to bring
offenders to just ice,

Welcoming  measures already taken by States to this end in conformity with
their  international  obligations,

m that the role of the United Nations, which incrudes the reporting
procedures established under General Assembly resolution 35/168 of 15 December 1980
and further elaborated in later Assembly resolutions, is important in promoting
efforts  to enhance the protection, security and safety of diplomatic and consular
missions and representatives,

&aebfuMins  its resolution 43/167  of 9 December 1988,

1. Takes of the report  of  the Secretary-General1

2. u am acts of violence against diplomatic an6 consular
missions and representatives, as well as against missions and representatives to
international intergovernmental organisations and officials of such organisations,
and emphasises t;rat such acts can never be juatifiedt

3. w for the immediate cessation of continuing violation of the
protect ion, security and safety of diplomatic and consular missions and
representatives and for respect of the right of free passage of diplomatic and
consular personnel coming from or returning to the sending State)

4. Uraee States to observe, implement and enforce the principles and rules
of international law governing diplomatic and consular relations and, in
particular,  to ensure, in conformity with their  international  obligations,  the
protect ion, security and safety of the missions, representatives  and off ic ials
mentioned in paragraph 2 above officially present in territories under their
jur i sd ic t ion , including practical  measures to prohibit  in their  territories  i l legal
act iv i t ies  of persons,  groups and organiaatione that  encourageI  inst igate ,  organise
or engage in the perpetration of acts against the security and safety of such
missions, representatives and officialat

5. Alsouraaa  States to take all necessary measures at the national and
international  levels  to prevent aiv acts  of  violence against  the missions,
representatives and officials mentioned in paragraph 2 above and to bring offenders
to  jus t i ce )

/ . . .



A/46/732
English
Page 6

6, m that States should co-operate oloeely through, bsalia,
contaots between the diplomatlo and consular missions sna the receiving State,  with
regard to praatiaal measures designed to enhance the protection, security and
safety of aiplomatia and consular missions and representatives and with regard to
exchange of information on the circumstances of all serious violations thereof)

7, m States that have not yet done so to consider becoming parties
to the instruments relevant to the protection, security and safety of diplomatic
and consular missions and representativesa

8, Alaa States,  in cases  where a dispute arises  in aonnection
with a violat ion of their  international  obl igations aoncerning  the protect ion of
the missions or the seaurity  of the representatives and offiaials mentioned in
paragraph 2 above, to make use of the means for peaceful settlement of disputes,
incluaing the good off ices  of  the Searetary-Qeneral, and requests the
Secretary-Oeneral , when he deemu it appropriate, to offer his good offices to the
S t a t e s  aireatly aoacernedr

9. Requests  al l  States  to  report to the Seoretary-Ge Iera in accordance with
paragraph 9 of resolution 421154 of 7 December 19871

10. m the Secretarydeneral  to  issue a report  on the i tem, in
accordance with paragraph 12 of resolution 42/154,  aontaining also an analytical
summary of the reports received under paragraph 9 above, on an annual basis, as
well as to proceed with his other tasks pursuant to the seme  resolution).

11. Deciaee  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh session
the item entitled Tonsideretion  of effective measures to enhance the protection,
security and safety of diplomatic anB consular missions sna representatives:
report of  the SecretaryJ3eneral”.


