
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr ,
GENERAL

A/45/115
26 No!-ember  1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty- f i f th session
Agenda item 53

PREVENTION OF AN ARMS RACE IN OUTER SPACE

Fj--ort of the First Committee

RaPPort,=:  M r . Lativi Modem LAWSON-BETUM (Togo)

. .
I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Prevention of an arms race in outer space" was included in
the provisional agenda of the forty-fifth session of the General Assembly in
accordance with Assembly resolution 441112 of 15 December 1989.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Conunittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October 1990, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 45 to 66.
At its 4th meeting, on 16 October, the First Committee decided to consider jointly
with other disarmament items agenda item 155, which was allocated to the First
Committee upon a decision of the General Assembly at its 30th plenary meeting,
on 15 October. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
23rd meetings, from 15 to 30 October (see A/C01/45/PV.3-23). Consideration of and
action on draft resolutions on those items took place between the 24th and 39th
meetings, from 2 to 16 November (see A/C.1/45/PV.24-39;.

4. In connection with item 53, the First Committee had before it the following
document: report of the Conference on Disarmament. 11

I/ Offic ial  Rec.ords of  the General  Assembly,  Forty- f i f th Session,>mPlement
N o .  2 7  ( A / 4 5 / 2 7 ) .

go-32401  0469P  (E) / * . .



A/45/775
English
Page 2

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/45/L.17

5. On 30 October, Banoladesh, Brazil, the Bvelorussian Soviot Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, China, Euvnt,  Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Ireland, Jordan, Malaysia, Mexico, Mvanmar, Peru, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sweden,
V-et Nam and Yuuoslavia  submitted a draft resolution entitled
“Prevention of an arms race in outer space” (A/C.1/45/L.17),  which was later also
sponsored by Chile, the Libyan- Arab Jamahiriva, Niaeria, the Sudan, Swaziland, the
Ukrainian Sovie-&  Socialist Reoublic  and Zimbabwe. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Sri Lanka at the 26th meeting, on 5 November.

6. At the 36th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C. li451L.17 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 9 was adopted by a recorded vote of 109 to 1, with
21 abstentions, The voting was as follows:

f a v o u r :In Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Gate  d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt I Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic  of ) ,  Iraq,
Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Romaria, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Social ist  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

4qa6 nst : United States ot‘ America,

???StE!i.n.LEq: Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

/ . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 7 5
English
Page 3

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1/45/L.17, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 129 to none, with 1 abstention (see para. 11, draft resolution A). The
voting was as follows:*

In favwt Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, China. Colombia,
Congo,  Conta Rica, CSte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprl*.s,  Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambique,  Myanmaf, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Veneouela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugosla ia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Aaainst: None.

Abstaining; United States of America.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/45/L.22 and Rev.1

7. On 30 October, Araentins, Brazil. India. Mexico, Peru, SW%&B and Um
submitted a draft resolution entitled “Confidence-building measures in outer space”
(A/C.1/45/L.22), which was later also sponsored by Bolivia, Cme, Iran (Islamic
ReDublic  of) and the United Republic of Tanzania.

8. On 12 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/45/L.22/Rev.l), which contained the following changes,

* Subsequently, the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
indicated that it had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 7 5
English
Page 4

(a) In the seventh preambular  paragraph, “work carried out so far” was
revised to read “work being carried out”, and “has contributed to identifying” was
replaced by “contributes to identifying”;

(b) At the end of operative paragraph 3, “forty-seventh session” was replaced
by “forty-eighth session”.

9. In connection with the draIt resolution, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on its programme budget implications (A/C.1/45/L.59),

10. At the 37th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.22/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 129 to none, with 1 abstention (see
para. 11, draft resolution B). The votirig was as followsr

In favou : Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, AngGla,  Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botstiana,  Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Sovie;. Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C6te  d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guiaea-Bissau,  Guyana, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaywria,  Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambig*le,  Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swexiland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic  of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, ZimbaLwe.

Against: None,

Abstaininq: United States of America.

/ . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 7 5
English
Page 5

I I I . RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

11. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutionsr

A

Recoo.  the common interest of all mankind in the exploration and use of
outer space for peaceful purposes,

Affirming the will of all States that the exploration and use of outer
space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, shall be for peaceful
purposes, shall be carried out for the benefit and in the interest of all
countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or scientific development, and
shall be the province of all mankind,

Reaffirmina also provisions of articles III and IV of the Treaty on Principles
Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space,
including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 2/

Recalling the obligation of all States to observe the provisions of the
Charter of the United Nations regarding the use or threat of use of force in their
international relations, including in their space activities,

Reaffirming paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, 31 in which it is stated that in order to prevent an arms
race in outer space further measures should be taken and appropriate international
negotiations held in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty,

Takina nOL Of its previous resolutions on this issue and of the Declaration
adopted by the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, ,4/ and taking note also of
the proposals submitted to the General Assembly at its tenth special session and at
its regular sessions, and of the recommendations made to the competent organs of
the United Nations and to the Conference on Disarmament,

Recoonizinq the grave danger for international peace and security of an arms
race in outer space and 02 developments contributing to it,

21 Resolution 2222 (XXI), annex.

a/ Resolution S-1012.

41 See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

/ . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 7 5
English
Page 6

s the paramount importance of strict compliance with existing arms
limitation and disarmament agreements relevant to outer space, including bilateral
agreements, and with the existing legal regime concerning the use of outer space,

Voting  that bilateral negotiations between the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United States of America have continued since 1985 with the
declared objective of working out effective agreements aimed, titer alig, at
preventing an arms race in outer space,

Welcoming the re-establishment of the &I HOC  Committee on the Prevention of an
Arms Race in Outer Space at the 1990 session of the Conference on Disarmament, in
the exercise of the negotiating responsibilities of this scle multilateral
negotiating body on disarmament, to continue to,examine  and identity, through
substantive and general consideration, issues relevant to the prevention of an arms
race in outer space,

voting that the Ad HOC  Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer
Space, taking into account its previous efforts since its establishment in 1985,
continued the examination and identification of various issues, existing agreements
and existing proposals, as well as future initiatives relevant to the prevention of
an arms race in outer space, 5/ and that this contributed to a better understanding
of a number of problems and to a clearer perception of the various positions,

EmDhasiainq  the mutually complementary nature of bilateral and multilateral
efforts in the field of preventing an arms race in outer space, and hoping that
concrete results will emerge from these efforts as soon as possible,

Convinced that further measures should be examined in the search for effective
and verifiable biiatetal and multilateral agreements in order to prevent an arms
race in outer space,

1. Reaffirm9  the importance and urgency of preventing an arms race in outer
space and the readiness of all States to contribute to that common objective, in
conformity with the provisions of the Treaty on the Principles Governing the
Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon
and Other Celestial Bodies;

7 Recoanizea  as stated in the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the
Preveniion of an Arm; Race in Outer Space, that the legal rigime applicable to
outer space by itself does not guarantee the prevention of an arms race in outer
space, that this legal regime  plays a significant role in the prevention of an arms
race in that environment, the need to consolidate and reinforce that rigime and
enhance its effectiveness, and the importance of the strict compliance with
existing agreements, both bilateral and multilateral; 61

51 See Official Records of the General Assemblv. Forty-fifth Session,
Suwlement No, 27 (A/45/27), para. 118.

6/ Ibid., para. 63 of the quoted text.

/ . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 7 5
English
Page 7

3 . v the necessity of further measures with appropriate and
effective provisions for verification to prevent an arms race in outer spacer

4 . wj~pn a l l  S t a t e s , in particular those with major space capabilities,
to contribute actively to the objective of the peaceful use of outer space and of
the prevention of an arms race in outer space and to refrain from actions contrary
to that objective and to the relevant existing treaties in the interest of
maintaining international peace and security and promoting international
co-operation;

5. Raiteratea that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
disarmament negotiating forum, has the primary role in the negotiation of a
multilateral agreement or agreements, as appropriate, on the prevention of an arms
race in outer space in all its aspects;

6. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to consider as a matter of
priority the question of preventing an arms race in outer space1

7 . mo rew the Conference on Disarmament to intensify its
consideration of the question of the prevention of an arms race in outer space in
all its aspects, building upon areas of convergence and taking into account
relevant proposals and initiatives, including those presented in the ~QQ
Committee at the 1990 session of the Conference and at the forty-fifth session of
the General Assembly)

8. m, in this regard, the relevance of considering measures on
confidence-building and greater transparency and openness in space as stated in the
report of the Ad Committee;

9. muesb the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish an ad hoc
committee with an adequate mandate at the beginning of its 1991 session and to
continue building upon areas of convergence with a view to undertaking negotiations
for the conclusion of an agreement or agreements, as appropriate, to prevent an
arms race in outer space in all its aspects,

10. yraes thr Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America to pursue intensively their bilateral negotiations in a constructive spirit
with a view to reaching early agreement for preventing an arms race in outer space,
and to advise the Conference on Disarmament periodically of the progress of their
bilateral sessions so as to facilitate its work)

11. Pecidea  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the item entitled “Prevention of an arms race in outer space”.

/ I . .



A / 4 5 / 7 7 5
English
Page 8

CoescFous  of the importance and urgency of preventing an arms race in outer
space,

w that, in accordance with the Treaty on Principles Qoverning the
Activities of States in the Exploration anll Use of Outer Space, including the Moon
snd Otr.,r Celestial Bodies, 21 the exploration and use of outer space, including
the Moon and other celestial bodies, shall be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or
scientific development, and shall be the province of all mankind,

Aware of the fact that more and more States are taking an active interest in
outer space or participating in important space programmes  for the exploration and
exploitation of that environment,

Recoagbging,  in this context, the relevancy space hat gained as an important
factor for the socia-economic development of many States, in addition to its
undeniable role in security issues,

wsiaing that the growing use of outer space has increased the need for
mare transparency as well as confidence-building measures,

w that the international community has unanimously recognized the
importance and usefulness of confidence-building measures, which can significantly
contribute to the promotion of peace and security and disarmament, in particular
through General Assembly resolutions 43178 H of 7 December 1988 and 44/116 U of
15 December 1989,

Noting the important work being carried out by the u Hoc Committee on the
Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space of the Conference on Disarmament, which
contributes to identifying potential areas of confidence-building measures,

Aware of the existence of a number of different proposals and initiatives
addressin.,  this Subject, which attest to a growing convergeace of views,

1. -firma the importance of confidence-building measures as means
conducive to ensuring the attainment of the objective of the prevention of an arms
race in outer space:

2 . Pecognizag their applicability in the space environment under specific
criteria yet to be defined:

71 Rasolution 2222 (XXI), annex,

/ . . .



A/45/775
English
Page 9

3. Recrueets  the Secretary-General to carry out, with the assistance of
government experts, a study on the specific aspects related to the application of
different confidence-building measures in outer space, including the, different
technologies available, possibilities for defining appropriate mechanisms of
international co-operation in specific areas of interest and so on, and to report
tt-.ereon  to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.

--w-w


