
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr .
GENERAL

A / 4 5 / 7 7 4
23 November 1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty- f i f th session
Agenda item 52

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE XNTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS TO ASSURE
NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON STATES kGAINST THE USE OR THREAT OF USE

OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

&pporteur: M r . Latevi Modem LAWSON-BETUM (Togo)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons" was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-fifth session of the
General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolution 441111 of 15 December 1969.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3 . At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October 1990, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 45 to 66.
At its 4th meeting, on 16 October, the First Committee decided to consider jointly
with other disarmament items agenda item 155, which was allocated to the First
Committee upon a decision of the General Assembly at its 30th plenary meeting, on
15 October. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
23rd meetings, from 15 to 30 October (see A/C.1/45/PV.3-23). Consideration of and
action on draft resolutions on those items took place between the 24th and
39th meetings, from 2 to 16 November (see A/C.1/45/PV.24-39).

90-32234 0449P (E) / . . .



A/45/174
English
Page 2

4. In connection with item 52, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 11

(b) Letter dated 1 August 1990 from the Permanent Representative of Malaysia
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of
the joint communiqui of the Twenty-third ASEAN Ministerial Meeting, held at Jakarta
on 24 and 25 July 1990 (A/45/389-S/21455);

(c) Letter dated 19 September 1990 from the Permanent Representative of Egypt
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of
the documents adopted by the Nineteenth Islamic Conference of Foreiqn Ministers,
held at Cairo from 31 July to 5 August 1990 (A/45/421-S/21797).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C,1/45/L,lq

5. On 30 October, Banuladesh, Iran (Wamic ReDUbliC  of), Madagascar. NeDal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka submitted a draft resolution entitled “Conclusion of
effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against
the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons” (A/C.1/45/L.19),  which read as follows:

“Conclusion of effective international arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use

of  nuclear weaoons

“The General Assembly,

“Bearing in mind the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States
of the world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples,

“Convinced that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and
to the survival  of  civilization,

“Deeniv  concerned at the continuing escalation of the arms race, in
particular the nuclear-arms race, and the possibility of the use or threat of
use of nuclear wgapons,

“Also convinced that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of
nuclear weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

11 Official Records of the General Assegb_&  Forty-fifth Session, Supplement
N o .  2 7  ( A / 4 5 / 2 7 ) .

/ . . .



A/45/174
English
Page 3

“wina into accw the principle of the non-use of force or threat of
force enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,

“D&~nlv  con-d alsq a b o u t  t h e  pos s ib i l i t y  of  t h e  u s e  o r  t h r e a t  o f  u s e
of nuclear weapons,

“Recoga&g&  that the independence, territorial  integrity  and sovereignty
of non-nuclear-weapon States qeed to be safeguarded against the use or threat
of use of force, including the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

,I siderigg  that, until nuclear d.isarmament  is achieved on a universal
basis , i t  i s  imperat ive  for  the  internat ional  communi ty  to  develop ef fect ive
measures to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

“~coaniai~ that effective measures to assure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
can constitute a positive contribution to the prevention of the spread of
nuclear weapons,

II ecallinq i t s resolutions 3261 G (XXIX) of 9 December 1974 and 311189 C
o f 21 December 1976,

“Bearing  in mu paragraph 59 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, J,/ in which rt urged the nuclear-weapon
States to pursue efforts to conclude, as appropriate, effective arrangements
to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons,

I, Desirous of promoting the implementation of the relevant provizions  of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session,

“bcallina  alsQ its resolutions 33172  B of 14 December 1978, 34185 of
11 December 1979, 351155 of 12 December 1980, 36195 of 9 December 1981, 37181
of 9 December 1982, 38/68 of 15 December 1983, 39/58 of 12 December 1984,
40/86 of 12 December 1985, 41152 of 3 December 1986, 42132 of
30 November 1987, 43/69 of 7 December 1988 and 44/111 of 15 December 1989,

I, Recellina  further paragraph 12 of the Declaration of the 1980s as tha
Second Disarmament Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 35146 of
3 December 1.980, which states, infer alia, that all efforts should be exerted
by the Committee on Disarmament 21 urgently to negotiate with a view to
reaching agreement on effective international arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

“11 Resolution S-1012.

*‘2/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

/ . . l



A/45/774
English
Page 4

“u the in-depth negotiations undertaken in the Conference on
Disarmament and its Ad Committee on Effective International Arrangements
to Assure Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use oi
Nuclear Weapons, 11 with a view to reaching agreement on this item,

“mna note of the proposals submitted under that item in U-e Conference
on Disarmament, including the drafts of an international convention,

‘I- note al89 of the decision of the Ninth Conference of Beads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1989, %/ as well as the relevant recommendations of the
Organisation of the Islamic Conference reiterated in the Final Conununiqui of
the Nineteenth Islamic Conference of Fore ign  Ministers, held at Cairo f rom
31 July to 5 August 1990, calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to reach
an urgent agreement on an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

“&7tina  also the support expressed in the Confereace  on Disarmament and
in the General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons, as well as the difficulties pointed out in evolving a common approach
acceptable  to  al l ,

“1. Reaffirms the urgent aeed to reach agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nu.clear wsaponsr

“2. Notes with satisfaction that in the Conference on Disarmament  there
is  no object ion,  in  principle , to the idea of an international convention to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons, although the difficulties as regards evolving a common approach
acceptable to all have also been pointed outt

“3 * Aooeala to  al l  States , especially the nuclear-weapon States, to
demonstrate the political will necessary to reach agreement on a common
approach and, in particular, on a common formula that could be included in an
international instrument of a legally binding character1

“4 . Recommend8  that further intensive efforts should be devoted to the
search for such a common approach or common formula and that the various
alternative approaches, including, in particular, those considered in the
Conference on Disarmament, should be further explored in order to overcome the
d i f f i c u l t i e s :

“31 Official Records of the General Assemblv, Fortieth Session,
Suvolement  No. 27 and corrigendum (A/40/27 and Corr.l),  sect.  1II.F.

“&/ S e e  A / 4 4 / 5 5 1 - S / 2 0 8 7 0 ,  a n n e x .

/ . . l



A/45/774
English
Page 5

"5. Recommends that the Conference on Disarmament should actively
continue negotiations with a view to reaching early agreement and concluding
effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, taking into account the
widespread support for the conclusion of an international convention and
giving consideration to any other proposals designed to secure the same
objective:

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth
session the item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements
to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons'."

6. At the 33rd meeting, on 9 November, the Chairman announced that following
consultations the sponsors of draft resolutions A/C.1/45/L.9  and A/C.1/45/L.lS,
under items 51 and 52, respectively, had been able to arrive at a single merged
text combining both draft resolutions. The Chairman requested the Secretariat to
issue the merged text under a new symbol, A/C.1/45/L.56. The Committee decided
accordingly (see A/45/773).

7. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.19.

B. Draft resolution AK.11451L.56 and Rev.1

8. On 9 November, Australia. Banaladesh, Bulaaria, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Madauascar, Neoal. New Zealand. Pakistan and Sri Lanka submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons"
(A/C.1/45/L.56).

9. On 12 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/45/L.56/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by Samoa.The revised draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Pakistan at the 35th meeting, on
13 November, and contained the following changes:

(a) A new fifth preambular paragraph was added as follows: "Welcoming the
progress achieved in recent years in both nuclear and conventional disarmament";

(b) The original sixth preambular paragraph was deleted:

(c) In the original ninth preambular paragraph, "constitute an important
positive contribution" was replaced by "contribute positively".

/ . . .



A/45/774
English
Page 6

10. At the 36th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/45/L.56/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 130 to none, with 3 abstentions (see
para.  1 1 ) . The voting was as follows:

In: Afghanistan, Albania ,  Alger ia ,  Ango la ,  A r g e n t i n a ,  Australia.
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, C:rilc,
China, Colfimbia, L’, Jgo, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Csechoslovakia,  Denmaxl(,  Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt,  Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Rmye, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahir!ys,  Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali,  Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mosamb~ 8, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Niger’.a,  NorvAy, man, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Poland,  Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia,
Spain, 6r.i ‘.anka, Sudan, Suriname, Swasiland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet  Socia l i s t  Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venetuela,  Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zsmbia,  Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstsininal France, United Xirrgdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

I I I . HECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

11. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolution:

Conclusion of  ef fect ive international  arranaements to  assure
non-nuclear-weaoon  States aaainst the use or threat of use

of nuclear weanons

The General Assembly,

Bearina in miA the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States of the
world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples,

/ . . .



A/45/774
English
Page 7

Convinced that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and to the
surv iva l  o f  c iv i l i sa t i on ,

Deeply concern  at the arms race, in particular the nuclear-arms race, and
the possibility of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

*m that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

pelcu the progress achieved in recent years in both nuclear and
conventional disarmament,

-into accou the principles of the non-use of force or threat of force
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,

utiainq that the independence, territorial  integrity  and sovereignty of
non-nuclear-weapon States ueed to be safeguarded against the use or threat of use
o f  f o r c e , including the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

D that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal basis,
it is imperative for the international community to develop effective measures and
arrangements to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Recogpiaia  that effective measures and arrangements to assure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons can
contribute positively to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

pear-  in m paragraph 59 of t’ne Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, a/ iu which it urged the nuclear-weapon States to
pursue efforts to conclude, as appropriate, effective arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and
desirous of promoting the implementation of the relevant provisions of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session,

Recallinq  the relevant parts of the special report of the Committee on
Disarmament submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special session, 21
the second special session devoted to disarmament, and of the special report of the
Conference on Disarmament submitted to the Assembly at its fifteenth special
session, $/ the third special session devoted to disarmament, as well as of the
annual report of the Conference on its 1990 session, 51

-

21 Resolution S-1012.

a/ gpeff’ i 1 R Twelfth cial Session,
Sunolement No.  2  (A/S-12/2) ,  sect .  1II.C.

41 Ibid.,  Fifteenth Snecial Session, Sunolement No, 2 (A/S-15/2),
s e c t .  1II.F.

51 Ib id . ,  For ty - f i f th  Stxsion,  Suonlpment No .  27  (A /45 /27 ) ,  s e c t .  fI1.F.

/ . . .



A/45/774
English
Page 8

v paragraph 12 of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second
Disarmament Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 35/46 of
3 December 1980, which states, inter, that all efforts should be exerted by
the Committee on Disarmament urgently to negotiate with a view to reaching
agreement on effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States  against  the  use  or  threat  of use  of  nuclear  weapons,

&&.&.~g  the in-depth negotiations undertaken in the Conference on Disarmament
and its Ad HOG Committee on Effective International Arrangements to Assure
Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use of Nuclear Weapons, with
a view to reaching agreement on this item,

w not@ of the proposals submitted under that item in the Conference on
Disarmament, including the drafts of an international convention,

T&c.&~g  notg of the decision of the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1989, p/ as well as the relevant recommendations of the Organiaetion of
the Islamic Conference reiterated in the Fjnal Communique of the Nineteenth Islamic
Conference of Foreign Ministers, 21 held at Cairo from 31 July to 5 August 1990,
calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to reach an urgent agreement on an
international convention to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons.

Takina_no_tem  of the unilateral declarations on the security of
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons made
by all nuclear-weapon States,

Botinq the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, as
well as the difficulties pointed out in evolving a common approach acceptable to
a l l ,

Noting also the greater willingness to overcome the difficulties encountered
in previous years,

Recallinq its relevant resolutions adopted in previous years,

Desirous Of oromotinq the implementation of its resolutions 44/110  and 441111
of 15 December 1989,

1. Reaffirma the urgent need to reach an early agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons;

P/ See A/44/551-5/20870, annex.

21 Sea A/45/421-S/21797, annex,

/ . * .



A/45/774
English
Page 9

2. &tes with satisfaction  that  in  the  Conference on Disarmament  there  i s  !I0
o b j e c t i o n ,  i n  p r i n c i p l e , to  the  idea  of an internat ional  convent ion to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
al though the  di f f icul t ies  as  regards  evolv ing a  common approach acceptable  to  al l
have also been pointed out)

3. @eela t o  a l l  S t a t e s , e s p e c i a l l y  t h e  n u c l e a r - w e a p o n  S t a t e s ,  t o
d e m o n s t r a t e  t h e  p o l i t i c a l  w i l l  a n d  f l e x i b i l i t y  n e c e s s a r y  t o  r e a c h  agreemerit  on  a
common approach and, in particular, on a common formula that could be included in
an  in t e rna t iona l  i n s t rument  of  a  l e g a l l y  b i n d i n g  character2

4. mm. tha t  f u r ther  i n t en s i ve  e f fo r t s  shou ld  be  devo ted  to  the  s earch
for such a common approach or common formula and that the various alternative
approaches ,  i nc lud ing ,  i n  par t i cu la r , those  considered in  the  Conference on
Di sarmament ,  shou ld  be  fu r ther  exp lored  i n  o rder  t o  overcoma  t he  d i f f i cu l t i e s ;

5. Recommenas a lso  that  the  Conference on Disarmament  should  act ively
cont inue intens ive  negot iat ions  with  a  v iew to  reaching early  agreelront  and
concluding ef fect ive  internat ional  arrangements  to  a s s u r e  non-nuclear-weapon States
against  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of nuclear  weapons,  taking into  account  the
widespread support  for the  conclus ion of an internat ional  convent ion and giv ing
considerat ion to  any other  proposals des igned to  secure  the  same object ive ;

6. Becidaa t o  inc lude  in  t h e  prov i s i ona l  agenda  o f  i t s  f o r ty - s ix th  s e s s ion
t h e  i t e m  e n t i t l e d  “ C o n c l u s i o n  of  e f f e c t i v e  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  a r r a n g e m e n t s  t o  a s s u r e
non-nuclear-weapon States  against  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  nuclear  weapons”.


