
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/45/759
21 November 1990

ORIGl'NAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 103

IMPORTANCE OF THE UNIVERSAL REALIiZA'I'ION OF THE RIGHT OF PEOPLES
TO SELF-DETERMI'IATION AND OF THE SPEEDY GRANTlNG OF INDEPENDENCE
TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES FOR THE EFFECTIVE GUARANTEE

AND OBSERVANCE OF HUMAN RIGHTS

Reaort of the Third Cornmitt_&@

uorteur: Mr. Mario DE LEON (Philippinks)

I. INT1~ODlJCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1990, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled "Importance of the universai realization of the right of peoples to
self-determination and of the speedy granting of independence to colonjal countries
and peoples for the effective guaraktee and observance of human rights" and to
allocate it to thQ Third Committee,

2. The Committee considered this item jointly with items 88, 91 and 98 at its 4th
to lOth, ltlth, 28th, 29th and 31st meetings, on 10 to 12, 15, 16 and 24 October
and 1, 2 and 5 Novomber 1990. An account of the Committee's qeneral discussion of
thu item is contained in the relevant summary records (AiC.3/45/SR.4-10).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documentation:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the importance of the universal
realization of the right of peoples to self-determination and of the speedy
granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples for the effective
guarantee and observance of human rights (A/45/500);

90-31985 0459P (E) / . . .



A/45/759
English
Page 2

(b) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special
Rapporteur on the use of mercenaries as a means to violate human rights and to
impede the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination (A/45/488}.

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 8 October 1990, the Under-Secretary-General For Human
Rights made an introductory statement on the item. At the same meeting, the
Committee also heard an introduction by the Special Happorteur on the question of
the use of mercenaries as a means to violate human rights and to impede the
exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination (see A/C,3/45/SR.3).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutionA/C.3/45/L.6

5. At the 18th meeting, on 24 October, the representative of Sierra Leone, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of
African States, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/45/L.6)  entitled "Importance
of the universal realization of the right of peoples to self-determination and of
the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples for the
effective guarantee and observance of human rights".

6. At the same meeting, the representative of Sierra Leone orally revised the
draft resolution by adding, at the end of the seventh preambular paragraph, the
words "and the Declaration on Aoartheid and its Destructive Consequences in
Southern Africa" adopted by the General Assembly on 14 December 1989 and the same
phrase in operative paragraph 13, between "21 August 1989" and "by releasing".

7. At its 29th meeting, on 2 November, following a statement by the representative
of Israel in explanation of vote before the vote (see A/C.3/45/SR.29),  the Committee
adopted the draft resolution, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 104 to 15,
with 23 abstentions (see para. 18, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras. India. Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar. Namibia, Nepal, Nicaraqua,

-Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papu::  New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar. Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia. Sudan Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

i&at Capy Avail&
/ . . .



A/45/759
English
Page 3

Aflaina: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Qermany, Iceland,
Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United
Kingdom of Oroat Britain and Northern Ireland and United States
of America.

Absteininrrr Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Costa Rica, Ceechoslovakia,  Dominica, El Salvador,
Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein, Malta, New
Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Samoa, Spain, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics.

8. At the same meeting, after the adoption of the draft resolution, statements in
explanation of’ vote were made by the representatives of the Unjted States, Italy
(on behalf of the States members of the European Community), Argentina, Uruguay,
Csechoslovakia,  Poland, Chile, Bulgaria, Hungary and Australia (see A/C.3/45/SR.29).

9. At the 31st meeting, 5 November, statements in explanation of vote were made
by the representatives of Romania, Turkey, the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics,
Mexico, El Salvador, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay
and the Dominican Republic (see A/C.3/45/SR.31).

B. Draft-

10. At the 18th meeting, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of Bo_tswana.
Dar-. w. -06. Costar. Jorden.

&-Morocco.-anan.  t h e  EMUQ&BL
r, Samoa. Sti Ari, the 6uBanl and

the UniteaBrabW, introduced a draft  resolution (A1C.31451L.9)  entit led
“Universal realisation of the right of peoples to self-determination”.
Subsequently, §humUmm  and Venueeu joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

11. At its 31st meeting, on 5 November 1990, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution without a vo:.e (see pqra. 19,  draft  resolution II).

12. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of India (see A1C.31451SR.31).

C .  wt r-on A/C.3/45/L.lQ

At the 18th meeting, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of &Lge r ia ,
hBenin.ivia. Botswwb Burkina  Faso, Ccl-Cuba,E i i* *a. @Bya. Lesotho, the w Arab J-a, Maldives,

co .  Mo&ue. Nmibia,  Nwia. Per-, Sierra  Leone ,
t h e  8uBen, Swas, t h e  wublic o f  -a, V i e t  Nm a n d
ZW&&R,  introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/45/L.10)  entitled “Use of
mercenaries as a means to violate human rights and to impede the exercise of the
right o f  peoples to self-determination”.



A/45/759
English
Page 4

14, Subsequently, w aad Y&b&Lu  joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

15. At the 31st meeting, following a statement by the representative Of
El Salvador and a statement in explanation of vote before the vote by the
representative of Italy (on behalf of the States members of the European Community)
(see A/C.3/45/SR.31),  the Connrittee  adopted the draft resolution by a recorded vote
o f  105 to 10,  with 20 abstentions (see para.  18,  draft  resolution III), The voting
was as follows: A/

Infavourr Afghanistan, Alban.ia,  Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil,
Brunei Darussalamr  Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian  Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comorosr  Congo,  Costa
Rica, Cdte d’lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,  Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Saint Ritts and Nevis, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swasiland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
o f  Tansania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venesuela,  Viet Nun, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

Aaeinst: Belgium, France, Qermany,  Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Portugal, United Kingdom  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and United States of America.

Abstainincr, Australia,  Austria,  Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Finland, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden and Turkey.

16. At the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote after the vote were
made by the representatives of the United States, Brazil, Japan, Turkey, Paraguay,
Malawi and Norway (also on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Sweden),

11 The delegations of Ghana, Ethiopia and Djibouti subsequently indicated
that, had they been present during the voting, they would have voted in favour of
the draft  resolutica.

/ . . .



A / 4 5 / 7 5 9
English
Page 5

17. Also at the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of
Uganda, Zambia, Australia, Algeria, Zimbabwe and Nigeria in connection with the
draft resolutions adopted.

111. RECOMMEWDATIGNS  OF THE THIRD CGMITTEE

18. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTICH  I

e o f  the ri* o f  p~~p&a
to ssl.f-dea of B
t o  co-1 cwies _an8 f o r  t h e  effectiva-

Reaf its faith in the importance of the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Reaf the importance o f  the universal  real isat ion of  the r ight o f
peoples to self-determination, national sovereignty and territorial integrity and
of the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples as
imperatives for the full enjoyment of  all human rights,

Reaffiuniarr  furthaf  the obligation of all Member States to comply with the
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of the United
Nations rogarding the exercise of the right to self-determination by peoples under
colonial and foreign domination,

Recellina  its resolution 1514 (XV) and all relevant resolutions concerning the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples,

m Namibia’s attainment of ?ndependcnce,

u in miad the Declaration adopted by the World Conference on Sanctions
against Racist South Africa, 21

m the adoption at Harare on 21 August 1989 of the Declaration of the
Organisation of African Unity Ad Hoc Committee on Southern Africa on the question

21 BsQ?ofncConference  on Saractions -Racist Sout& Africa
is. 16-20 Jd9M (United Nations publication,  Sales No, E.86.1.23),  chap. 14,

/ . . .



A/45/759
English
Page 6

of South Africa 91 and its subsequent endorsement by the Ninth Conference of Heads
of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at  Belgrade f r o m  4 to
7 September 1989, a/ as well as the report of the Monitoring Group of the AB
Committee on Southern Africa of the Organisation of African Unity, 51 and the
Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, P/
adopted by the General Assembly on 14 December 1989,

v the outcome of the International Conference on the Alliance
between South Africa and Israel, held at Vienna from 11 to 13 July 1983, I/

Te)lina of resolution CWRes.1272  (LII) on South Africa adopted by the
Council of Ministers of the Organi6ation of African Unity at its fifty-second
ordinary session, held at Addis Ababa from 3 to 7 July 1990, 81

ReafiftmiRn  that the system of m imposed on the South African people
constitute6 a violation of the fundamental right6 of that people, a crime against
humanity and a constant threat to international peace and security,

Reeffirmina its resolution 3912 of 28 September 1984, and recalling
Security Council resolution 554 (1984) of 17 August 1984, in which the Council
rejected the so-called “new constitution” as null and void, and Council
resolution 569 (1985) of 26 July 1985,

u by the continuing act8 of assassinations and abduction6  of member6 and
leader6 of the national liberation movements in Africa and elsewhere by hit squads
deployed and paid by the racist regime,

m its resolution 441244, adopted by consensus on 14 September 1990, in
which, hgter W,
Declaration on

it called upon the South African regime to abide fully by the
m and its Destructive Consequence6 in Southern Africa,

w that, while some significant political measures in the right direction
have been undertaken by the m r/gime, 6UCh  as the lifting of the ban on
political organisations and the release of some political prisoners, m is
still firmly in place,

11 A/44/697, annem.

41 See A/44/551-S/20070,  annex.

5/ A/44/963, annex.

61 Resolution S-1611.

7_/ See A/38/311-S/15883,  annex.

81 See A/45/402, annex I.



A/45/759
English
Page 7

Welcominq the ongoing talks between the African National Congress of South
Africa and the South African rigime aimed at establishing a political environment

.
suitable for negotiations towards the dismantling of auartheti , and the results
achieved thus far as contained in the Groote Schuur Minute p/ and the Pretoria
Minute,

Notina with concern that political trials and the detention of political
activists continue unabated in South Africa and in total disregard of the
agreements reached in talks between the rigime and the African National Congress of
South Africa,

Deenlv concerned abow?; the current wave of violence in South Africa resulting
from the continued existence of anartheid policies, practice6 and structures as well
as from actions of tho6e forces opposed to the democratic transformation of the
country,

Gravelv concerned about the anartheid rigime's continued use of the death
penalty against South African patriots with contemptuous disregard for appeals for
clemency from the international community, including the General Assembly,

Considerinq the concerted campaign by the President of the aDartheid rigime to
project himself as a reformer in order to ward off the further imposition of
sanctions by the international community,

Deeulv concerned about the continued terrorist acts of aggression committed by
the Pretoria rigime against independent African States in the region, in particular
the unprovoked attacks against Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbabwe,

Deeulv indiunant at the persistent policy of hostility by the racist rigime of
South Africa against Angola, which constitutes an act of aggression against the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country,

Reaffirming the national unity and territorial integrity of the Comoros,

Recallinq the Political Declaration adopted by the first Conference of Reads
of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity and the League of Arab
States, held at Cairo from 7 to 9 March 1977, &Q/

Recallina also the Geneva Declaration on Palestine and the Programme of Action
for the Achievement of Palestinian Rights, adopted by the International Conference
on the Qiiestion  of Palestine, &l/

21 A/45/266, annex.

xl/ See Official Records of the Securitv Council. Thirty-second Year,
%oolement for Januarv, February and March 1977, document 5112298.

JJ./ .Report of the International Conference on the r)usstlon  of Palestine,
St-7 Seotember 1983 (United Nation6 publication,'Sales

No. E.83.1.211, chap. I.



A/45/759
English
Page 8

D that the denial of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian
people to self-determination, sovereignty, independence and return to Palestine and
the brutal suppression by the Israeli forces of the heroic uprising, the Ma,
of the Palestinian population in the occupied territories, as well as repeated
Israeli aggression against the population of the region, constitute a serious
threat to international peace and security,

w in mina Security Council resolutions 605 (1987) of 22 December 1987,
607 (1988) of 5 January 1988 and 608 (1988) of 14 Janvary 1988 and General Assembly
resolutions 43/21  of 3 November 1980, 431177 of 15 December lba8 and 4412 of
6 October 1989, on the deterioration of the situation of the Palestinian people in
the occupied territories,

at the deplorable consequences of  Israel’s acts
of aggression against Lebanon and its practices in and it6 continuing OCCUpatiOb  of
part6 of southern Lebanon, as well as its refusal to implement the relevant
resolutions of the Secu:ity Council, in particular resolution 425 (1978) of
19 March 1978,

1 C&L- all States to implement fully and faithfully all the
resol;Lions  of  the United Nation6  regarding the exercise of the right to
self-determination and independence by peoples under colonial and foreign
tiomination;

2. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples for independence,
territorial integrity, national unity and liberation from colonial domination,
e and foreign occupation by all available means, including armed struggle)

3. Reaffitms the inalienable right of the Palestinian people and all
peoples under foreign occupation and colonial domination to self-determination,
national independence, territorial  integrity,  cat ions1 unity  and sovereignty
without foreign interference;

4. WY cm those Governments that dc not recognise the right to
Self-determination and indepesdence of all peoples still under colonial domination,
alien subjugation and foreign Occupation, notably the peoples of Africa and the
Palestinian people)

5. v Israel to refrain fhnom deporting any Palestinian civilians
from the occupied Palestinian territories  and to release immediately all
Palestinian detainee61

6. wlv cm the constant and deliberate violations of the
fundamental rights of the Palestinian peoples, as well as the expansionist
activities of Israel in the Middle East, which constitute an obstacle to the
achievement of self-determination and independence by the Palestinian people and a
threat to peace and stability in the region;

/ ..*



A/45/759
English
Page 9

7, w al l  Sta tes , the specialised agencies and organisations 01 the
United Nations system, as well as other international organisations, to extend
their support to the Palestinian people through its sole and legitimate
representative, the Palustinian  Liberation Organisation, in its struggle to regain
its right to self-determination and independence in accordance with the Charter of
the United Nationst

8, v to all States, the United Nations system and other
international organisations to assist in the reconstruction and economic
development of Namibia8

9. Canaemlle  the policy of t’bantustanisation”  and reiterates its support for
the oppressed people of South Africa in its just and legitimate struggle aq@inst
ths racist  minority regime of Pretorial

10. Reaff irms i ts reject ion o f  the so-cal led “new constitution*’ as null and
void, and reiterates that peace in South Africa can be guaranteed only by the
establishment of majority rule through the full and free exercise of adult suffrage
by all the people in a united and undivided South Africa)

11. Commenas the mass democratic movement in South Africa for the tremendous
advances scored during the recent campaign of defiance to unjust enertheid  laws in
the ongoing struggle against m;

12. Welcomea  the unconditional release of Nelson Mandela and other political
prisoners but condemns the continuing practice ot detentions and imprisonment of
po l i t i ca l  ac t i v i s t s  by  the  ~ regime;

13. V the u=UaU regime to respond positively to the
provisions of the Declaration of the Organisation of African Unity AB Committee
on Southern Africa oa the question of Sollth Africa, adopted at Harare on

I21 August 1989, 9/ and the Declaration on m and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa, 41 adopted by the general Assembly on
14 December 1909,  by releasing unconditionally all political prisoners and by
halting all political trials as a means of creating an environment conducive to the
peaceful resolution of the South African situations

iU. Determines  that the South African racist regime must take additional
steps to implement the profound and irreversible changes called for in the
Declaration;

15. -6 for an immediate end to violence and calls upon the South African
regime to take urgent action to end it, specifically by dismantling the m
structures and ensuring that effective and impartial action is taken by its
security forces and calls upon all parties concerned to contribute to the
eStablibhment  of a climate free of violencer

/ .I.



A/45/759
English
Page 10

16. m the establishment and use of armed terrorist groups by
South Africa with a view to pitting them aqainet the national liberation movements
and destabilising the legitimate Qovernments of southern Africa)

17, w for the full implementation of the provisions of the
Declaration adopted by the World Conference on Sanctions against Racist South
Africa) 21

18. B the immediate application of the mandatory arms embargo
against South Africa, imposed under Security Council resolution 418 (1977) of
4 November 1977, by all countries and more particularly by those countries that
maintain military and nuclear co-operation with the racist Pretoria regime and
continue to supply it with related m&&&Q]

19. stronalv the policy of those Western States, Israel and other
States whose political, economic, military, nuclear, strategic, cultural and sports
relations with the racist minority regime of South Africa encourage that regime to
persist in its suppression of the aspirations of the people to self-determination
and independence)

20. Denounces the collusion between Israel and South Africa and expresses
support for the Declaration of the International Confereace  on the Alliance between
South Africa and Israelr 11

21.  v the persistent  policy of  host i l i ty  and aggression
pursued by racist South Africa against the sovereignty and territorial integrity rrf
Angola, which constitutes a voiolation of the New York accord of
22 December 1988; JJ/

22. I)emse8s  that the Pretoria regime respect the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Angola and the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs
of that State, and demands the immediate payment of compensation to Angola for
damages caused, in accordance with the relevant decisions and resolutions of the
Security Councilr

2.1. m the Government of Angola for its palitical will, diplomatic
flexibility am3 constructive spirit in the search for a negotiated solution to the
problems of southern Africa;

24. WY maEfirms  its so?.idarity with the independent African countries
and netianal liberation movements that are victims of murderous acts of aggression
and destdbflieation  by the rac:sk regime of Pretoria, and calls upon the
international community to render increased assistance and support to these
countries in order to enable them to strengthen their defence capacity, defend
their sovereignty and territorial integrity and peac(ffully  rebuild and develop;

JJ/ A/43/989-S/20346, annex.

/ * . .



A/45/759
English
Page 11

25. §QQ.,~ the racist  rdqime o f  South Africa for i ts  past  acts  of
destabilisation against Lesotho , and strongly urges the international community to
continue to extend maximum assistance to Lesotho to enable it to fulfil its
international humanitarian obligations towards refugees and to use its influence on
the racist regime of South Africa so that it desists f r o m  such acts against Lesotho)

26. Demenas that the racist regime of South Africa pay full and adequate
compensation to Botswana for the loss of life and damage to property resulting from
the unprovoked and unwarranted military attacks of 14 June 1985, 19 May 1986 and
20 June 1988 on the capital of Botswanar

27. m the escalation of massacres of defenceless people and
the continuing destruction of economic and social infrastructures perpetrated
against Momambique  by armed terrorists , who are &n extension of the South African
army of agaressiont

.2 8 .  mall relevant resolutions adopted by the Orqaniaation  of African
Unity and the United Nations on the question of Western Sahara, including General
Assembly resolution 44188  of 11 December 1989, and calls upon the current Chairman
of the Assembly of Heads of State and Qovernment of the Organisation of African
Unity and the Secretary-General of the United Nations to continue their efforts to
f ind a jus: and lasting solution to the questions

29, t(ntaa the contacts between the Qovernment of the Comoro8  and the
Qovernment of France in the slearch for a just solution to the problem of the
integration of the Comorian island of Mayotte into the Comoros, in accordance with
the resolutions of the Organisation OC African Unity and the United Nations on the
questiont

30. m the continued violation of the human right.6 of the
peoples still under colonial domination and alien subjuqationt

31. u for a substantial increase in all forms of assistance given by all
States, United Nations organs, the specialised agencies and non-governmental
orgenisations to the victims of  racism, racial discrimination and aoar through
national liberation movements recognised by the Organisation of African Unity)

32. Reaffitms  that the practice of using mercenaries against sovereign States
and national liberation movements constitutes a crisjiaal  act, and calls upon the
Governments of all countries to enact legislation declaring the recruitment,
E’inencing  and training of mercenaries in their territories and the transit of
mercenaries through their territories to be punishable offences, and prohibiting
their nationals from serving as mercenaries, and to report on such legislation to
the Secretary-General;

33, D_emends  the immediate and unconditional release of all persons detained
or imprisoned as a result of their struggle for self-determination and
independence, full respect for their fundamental individual rights and comr,liance

/ . . .



A/45/759
English
Page 12

with article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, n/ under which no one
shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment,

3 4 .  wea 7for the material and other forms of assistance
that peoples under colonial rule continue to receive from qovernments,
organisations of the United Nations system and other intergovernmental
organimations, and calls for a substantial increase in that assistancef

350 Urges all States, the specialised agencies and other competent
organisations of the United Nations system to do their utmost to ensure the full
implementation of the Declaration on the Qrantinq of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and to intensify their efforts to support peoples under
colonial, foreign and racist domination in their just struggle for
self-determination and independencer

36. -&I the Secretary-General to give maximum publicity to the
Declaratjon  on the Qranting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and
to give the widest possible publicity to the etruqqle of oppressed peoples for the
achievement of their self-determination and national independence and to report
periodically to the Qeneral Assembly on his activities in this regard)

37. Decides to consider this item at its forty-sixth session on the basis of
the reports on the strengthening of assistance to colonial Territories and peoples
tha t  Qovernments, organrsations of the United Nations system, other
intergovernmental organisations and non-g~vernmeatal  orqcaisations  have been
requested to srtbmi t .

DRAFT RESOLUTIOR II

&&.&sl&  the importance, for the effective guarantee and observance of
human rights, o f  the universal  real isat ion of  the right of  peoples to
self-determination enshrined A-I the Charter of the United Nations and embodied in
the International Covenants on Human Rights, M/ as well as in the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial  Countries and Peoples contained in Qeneral
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

m the progressive exercise of the right to self-determination by
peoples under colonial, foreign or alien occupation and their emergence into
sovereign statehood and independence,

Au Resolution 217 A (III ),

w See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex,

/ . * .



A/45/759
English
Page 13

v at the continuation of acts or threata  of foreign military
intervention and occupation that are threatening to wppressr or have already
suppressed, the right to self-determination of an increasing number of sovereign
peoples and nations,

-wave cm that, as a consequence of the persistence of such
actions, millions of people have been and are being uprooted from their homes as
refugees and displaced persons, and emphasieing  the urgent need for concerted
international  action to al leviate their  condit ion,

w the relevant resolutions regarding the violation of the right of
peoples to self-determination and other human rights  a8 a result of foreign
military intervention, aggreesion  and occupation, adopted by the Commission on
Human Rights at its thirty-sixth, lji/ thirty-eoventh, J&/ thirty-eighth, l.21
th i r ty -n in th ,  U/ for t ie th ,  l.91 for ty - f i r s t ,  241 for ty - second ,  2;L/ for ty - th i rd ,  2.U
for ty - four th ,  n/ for ty - f i f th  a/ qnd for ty - s ix th  se88ion8,  2.51

u/ see u,wdS o f  e (Ta& lQ80,  SW-
Na. and  corr igendum (E/1980/13  and Corr.l),  chap, )[xvI, sect, A.

lw w*r l!?uGuPIPlementNo. and corrigendum (E/1981/25 and Corr.l),
chap. XXVIII, sect, A,

au IbLB*r ULENo.2 and corrigendum (E/1982/12 and Corr.l),
chap. XXVI, sect. A.

2.u xki.d.I l.mLsJSuPPlemeRtm and corrigendum (E/1983/13 and Corr.l),
chap,  XXVII,  sect.  A.

IL!/ Lhi4.r vsupslement  N o .  4 and corrigendum (E/1984/14 and Corr.l),
chap. II, sect, A,

zQ/ w., u85, SB No.  2 (E /1985 /22) ,  chap .  II ,  sec t .  A.

a/ m*r u!8uP_PlemantNo.  (E/1966 /22) ,  chap .  II ,  sec t .  A.

2.21 Lkia.# J19B7,LNb-s and corrigenda (E/1987/18 and Corr.1
and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

231 WQ.,  l.sEiLmNo._Z and corrigendum (E/1988/12  and Corr.l),
chap, II, sect. A.

241 M., 1989. S-t No,  2 (E /1969 /20) ,  chap .  II ,  sec t ,  A .

fi/ lkido, d290. SB NO .  2 (E/1990/22),  chop. II,  sect,  A.

/ . . .



A/45/759
English
Page 14

E&&L&&J its resolutions 35135  B of 14 November 1950, 36/10 of
28 October 1981, 37142  o f  3  December  1982,  J8/16 o f  22  November  39/181983, of
23 November 1984, 40124 of 29 November 1985, 41/100 of 4 December 1986, 42/94 o f
7 December 1987, 431105  of 8 December 1988 and 44180  of 8 December 1989,

v of the report of the Secretary-General, u/

1. ReaffiFms that the universal realisation  of the right of all peoples,
including those under colonial, foreign and alien domination, to self-determination
is a fundamental condition for the effective guarantee and observance of human
rights and for the preservation and promotion of such rights)

2. es i ts  firm to acts  of  foreign mil i tary intervention,
aggression anJ occupation, since these have resulted in the suppression of the
right of peoples to self-determination and other human rights in certain parts of
the wo~ldr

3. mls upon those States responsible to cease immediately their military
intervention and occupation of foreign countries and territories and all acts of
repression, discrimination, exploitation and maltreatment, particularly the brutal
and inhuman methods reportedly employed for the execution of these acts against the
peoples concernedf

4. I,&@orea the plight of the millions of refugees and displaced persons who
have been uprooted as a result of the aforementioned acts, and reaffirms their
right to return to their homes voluntarily in safety and honour)

5. Baa\bas_ta  the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give special
attention to the violation of human rights, especially the right to
self-determination, resulting from foreign military intervention, aggression or
occupaticnt

6. R~QUULU  the Secretary-General to report on this issue to the General
Assembly at its forty-eixth session under the item entitled “Importance of the
universal realieation of the right of peoplec to self-determination and of the
speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples for the effective
guarantee and observance of human rights”.

/ . I l



A/45/759
English
Page 15

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Use of mercenaries  as a meens  to violatots U-&~RR&
to &-de-

m the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations concerning the strict observance of the principles of sovereign equality,
political independence, territorial  integrity of  States and self-determination of
peoples, as well as a scrupulous respect for the principle of the non-use or threat
of the use of force in international  relations, as developed in the Declaration on
Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation
among States, a/

D the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples and their liberation
movements for their independence, territorial integrity, national unity and
liberation from colonial domination, m and foreign intervention and
occupation, and that their legitimate struggle can in no way be considered as or
equated to mercenary activity,

Ming that the use of mercenaries is a threat to international peace and
security,

mconcetnea about the menace that the activities of mercenaries represent
for all States, particularly African and other developing States,

Alarmea at the emergence of new international criminal activities of
mercenaries in collusion with drug traffickers,

B that the activities of mercenaries are contrary to the fundamental
principles of international law, such as non-interference in the internal affairs
of States, territorial integrity and independence, and impede the process of the
self-determination of  peoples struggling against colonialism, racism and m
and all forms of foreign domination,

w all of  i ts  relevant resolutions, as well as those of the Security
Council, the Economic and Social Council and the Organisation of African Unity, in
which, Wer al&a, it condemned any State that permitted or tolerated the
recruitment, financing, training, assembly, transit and use of mercenaries, with
the objective of overthrowing the Governments of States Members of the United
Nations, especially those of developing countries, or of fighting against national
liberation movements,

221 Resolution 2625 (IMV), annex,

/ l. .



A/45/759
English
Page 16

QGR,R~ about the loss of life, the substantial damage to property
and the short-term and long-term negative effects on the economy of southern
African countries resulting from mercenary aggression,

m that it is necessary to develop international co-operation among
States for the prevention, prosecution and punishment of such offences,

We~g the adoption of the International Convention against the
Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries, 261

1. Takee with appreciation of the report of the Special Rapporteur of
the Commission on Human Rights) 291

2. Coedemns  the recruitment, financing, training, assembly, transit and use
of mercenaries, as well as all other forms of support to mercenaries for the
purpose of destabilising and overthrowing the Governments of African States and of
other developing States and fighting against the national liberation movements of
peoples struggling for the exercise of their right to self-determinations

3, Affirms that the use of mercenaries and their recruitment, financing and
training are offences of grave concern to all States and violate the purposes and
principles enshriaed  in the Charter of the United Nations)

4. v the racist regime of South Africa for its use of groups
of armed mercenaries  against national liberation movements and for the
destabilisation of the Governments of southern African States1

5. Denounces any State that persists in the recruitment, or permits or
tolerates the recruitment, of mercenaries and provides facilities to them for
launching armed aggression against other States1

61 w all States to take the necessary steps alId to exercise the utmost
vigilance against the menace posed by the activities of mercenaries and to ensure,
by both administrative and legislative measuresr that the territory of those States
and other territories under their control, as well as their nationals, are not used
for the recruitment, assembly, financing, training and transit of mercenaries, or
for the planning of activities designed to destabilise or overthrow the Government
of any State and to fight the national liberation movements struggling against
racism, mthe colonial domination and foreign intervention or occupation;

7. m all States to extend humanitarian assistance to victims of
situations resulting from the use of mercenaries, as well a6 from colonial or alien
domination of foreign occupation:

281 Resolution 44134, annex.

a/ A/45/406, annex.



A/45/759
English
Page 17

8. m that to use channels of humanitarian and other assistance to
finauce, train and arm mercenaries is inadmissiblet

9. m all States to take early action to sign, accede to or ratify the
International ionvention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of
Mercenaries, in order to expeditti  the coming into force of that Convention1

10. Recruests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
forty-sixth session on the use of mercenaries.

--w-w


