







































Distr.
LIMITED

A/45/L.33
LO December 1990

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 34

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA

Nigeria: draft resolution

Procrramme of work of the Special Committee asainst Apartheid

The General Assembly,

Havino considered the report of the Special Committee against Auartheid, 11

1. Commends the Special Committee against Apartheid for the diligent manner
in which it has discharged its responsibilities in monitoring the situation in
South Africa and promoting international action against aoartheid:

2. Takes note of the report of the Special Committee and endorses its
recommendations relating to its programme of work;

3. Authorizes the Special Conunittee, in accordance with its mandate and
acting, with the support services of the United Nations Centre against Aoartheid,
as the focal point for the international campaign against aoartheid and the
promotion of the implementation of the Declaration on Aoartheid and its Destructive
Conseguences in Southern Africa: 2/

(a) To continue monitoring closely developmenta in South Africa and the
actions of the international community, particularly regarding the need for
maintaining pressure on South Africa as called for in the Declaration:

I / A/45/22 and Add.1.

ii!/ Resolution S-16/1, annex.

90-34891 29082 (E) / l . .



A/45/L.33
English
Page 2

(b) To continue mobilizing international action against apartheid,
inter alia, through collection, analysis and dissemination of information, through
liaison and consultations with Governments, intergovernxnental and non-governmental
organizations and relevant individuals and groups, both inside and outside South
Africa, able to influente public opinion and decision-making, and through missions,
hearings, conferences, publicity and other relevant activities;

(c) To publish an interim annual report during the first half of 1991 on
developments in South Africa and on the international response thereto and, in this
context, undertake, as appropriate, consultations with the parties concerned:

4. Appeals to al1 Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to increase their co-operation with the Special Committee and the
Centre against Apartheid in the discharge of their mandates;

5. Recruests al1 United Nations bodies, organs and agencies to co-operate
with the Special Committee and the United Nations Centre against Aoartheid in their
activities in order to ensure consistency, improve co-ordination and efficient use
of available resources and avoid duplication of efforts in the implementation of
the relevant resolutions of the General. Assembly and the Security Council;

6. Reguests Governments and organizations to provide financia1 and other
assistance for the special projects of the Special Committee and to make generous
contributions to the Trust Fund for Publicity against Apartheid;

7. Appeals to al1 Governments, intergovernmental and non?governmental
organizations, information media and individuals to co-operate with the Centre
against Apartheid and the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat in
their activities relating to aoartheid and, in particular, in disseminating
information on the evolving situation in South Africa:

8. Decides to continue the authorization of adequate financia1 provision in
the regular budget of the United Nations to enable the African National Congress of
South Africa and the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania to maintain offices in New
York in order to participate effectively in the deliberations of the Special
Committee against Aoartheid and other appropriate bodies;

9. Decides to make a special allocation of 480,000 United States dollars to
the Special Committee for 1991 from the regular budget of the United Nations to
cover the cost of special projects to be decided upon by the CoTmittee.


