







































Distr.
LIMLTED!I r ~ 6, >.!: J,",,_j/, "ll 'j

) ,:: :f+)?g

A/45/L.17

, . ,, ; 1. ,j.
,,; , ,f <, ,,: 1 ,..i:t. -j t1'1 ,i;.,1,,;:, , ij I'

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fifth session
Agenda item 18

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE
TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES

Afqhanistan, Alqeria, Benin, Conqo, Cuba, Ethiopia, Ghana,
India, Madaqascar, Monqolia, Namibia, Pakistan. Papua New
Guinea, Svrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Reoublic of
Tanzania, Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zimbabwe:

draft resolution

Dissemination of information on decolonization

T W ,

Havinq examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the dissemination of
information on decolonization and publicity for the work of the United Nations in
the field of decolonization, 3,/

Recallinq its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
al1 other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations concerning the
dissemination of information on decolonization, in particular General Assembly
resolution 44/102 of ll December 1989,

Reiteratinq the importance of publicity as an instrument for furthering the
aims and purposes of the Declaration and mindful of the continuing pressing need to
take al1 possible steps ta acquaint world public opinion with al1 aspects of the
problems of decolonization with a view to assisting effectively the peoples of the
colonial Territories in achieving self-determination, freedom and independenee,

Y Al45123 (Part III), chap. III.

,90-30753 26992 (E) / . . .



A/45/L.17
English
Page 2

&.!&W with concern the measures of censorship imposed by the racist régime of
South Africa upon the local and international media with respect to the pOliCieS
and practices of apartheid,

Aware, of the increasingly important role being played in the widespread
dissemination of relevant information by a number of non-governmental organizations
having a special interest in decolonization, and noting with satisfaction the
intensified efforts of the Special Committee in enlisting the support of those
organizations in that regara,

1. Aporoves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the dissemination of
information on decolonization and publicity for the work of the United Nations in
the field of decolonization; 1,'

2. Considers it incumbent upon the United Nations to continue to play an
active role in the process of self-determination and independence and to intensify
its efforts for the widest possible dissemination of information on decolonization,
with a view to the further mobilization of international public opinion in support
of complete decolonization;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, having regard to the suggestions of the
Special Cotnmittee, to continue to take concrete measures through al1 the media at
his disposal, includíng publications, radio and television, to give widespread and
continuous publicity to the work of the United Nations in the field of
decolonization, and, inter alia:

(a) TQ continue, in consultation with the Special Committee, to collect,
prepare and disseminate basic material, studies and articles relating to the
problems of decolonization and, in particular, to continue to publish the
periodical Obiective: Justice and other publications, special articles and
studies, including the Decolonization series, by increasing the information on al1
the Territories under consideration by the Special Committee, and to select from
them appropriate material for wider dissemination by means of reprints in various
languages;

(b) To seek the ful1 co-operation of the administering Powers concerned in
the discharge of the tasks referred to above;

(c) To intensify the activities of al1 United Nations information centres;

(d) To maintain a working relationship with the Organization of African Unity
and other appropriate organizations by holding periodic consultation and exchanging
relevant information;

(e) To enlist, with the close co-operation of United Nations information
centres, the support of non-governmental organizations having a special interest in
deoolonization in tbe dissemination of the relevant information;

/ . . .



A/45/L.17
English
Page 3

(f) To continue to provide ful.1 press release coverage for al1 meetings of
the Special Committee and its subsidiary bodies;

(g) To ensure the availability of the necessary facilities and services t.0
that end;

(h) To report to the Special Committee on the measures taken in
implementation of the present resolution;

4. Reuuests al1 Statesl in particular the administering Powers, the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system and
non-governmental organizations having a special interest in decolonization, to
undertake or intensify, in co-operation with the Secretary-General and within their
respective spheres of competence, the large-scale dissemination of the information
referred to in paragraph 2 above;

5. Recruests the Special Committee to follow the implementation of the
present resolution and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth
session.


