







































Distr. 
GENERAL 

r> !: : " , : :j,;: 1) fgn t II' 

A/46/674 
,I i 'j \ ‘,.,\j ,,, ,. jif $;j;;y 

26 November 1991 
ENGLISH 

. " ,j/ / i 1 ,,, > .> ORIGINAL: SPANISH (( i ,.,, 8, !.I, , '-, ? ) ,i 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 61 

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDING DOCUMENT OF 
THE TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY 

Renort of the First Committee 

Rapvorteur: Mr. Pablo EmiLio SADER (Uruguay) 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. The item entitled: 

"Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth 
Special Session of the General Assembly: 

"(a) Regional disarmament: report of the Secretary-General; 

"(b) United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory 
services programme: 

, "(c) Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons; 

"(d) World Disarmament Campaign; 

"(e) Nuclear-arms freeze; 

"(f) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, 
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and 
the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, 
Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean" 

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-sixth session Of the 
General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 44/117 B Of 
15 December 1989 and 45/59 A, B, C, D and E of 4 December 1990. 

91-45992 0666P (E) / ..I 



A/46/674 
English 
Pago 2 

2. At jts 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in 
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee. 

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 10 October 1991, the First Committee decided to 
hold a general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, 
items 47 to 65. The deliberations on those items took place between the 
3rd and 24th meetings, from 14 to 30 October (see A/C.1/46/PV.3-24). 
Consideration of and action on draft resolutions on those <terns took place 
between the 25th and 37th meetings, from 4 to 15 November (see 
A/C. 1/46/PV.25-37). 

4. In connection with item 61, the First Committee had before it the 
following documents: 

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 11 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional 
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for 
Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Rations Regional 
Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the 
Caribbean (A/46/365); 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on regional disarmament (A/46/382 
and Add.1); 

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the World Disarmament Campaign 
(A/46/498); 

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations disarmament 
fellowship, training and advisory services programme (A/46/530); 

(f) Letter dated 1 July 1991 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the 
Permanent Mission of the Netherlands to the United Nations addressed to the ' 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Declaration on 
non-proliferation and arms exports, made by the European Council on 
29 June I.991 (A/46/289); 

(g) Letter dated 9 July I.991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, 
transmitting the texts of the Communique of the Political Consultative 
Committee of the Warsaw Treaty Member States, which met at Prague on 
1 July 1991, and the respective Protocol on terminating the validity of the 
Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, signed at Warsaw On 

-- 

It/ Official Records of the General Assemblv, Forty-sixth Session, 
mplement No. 27 (A/46/27). 

/  1.. 



A/46/614 
English 
Page 3 

14 May 1955, and of the Protocol on extending its validity, signed at Warsaw 
on 26 April 1985 (A/46/300-5/22782): 

(h) Letter dated 12 July 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Cameroon to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, 
transmitting the text of the Final Document adopted by the reprksentatives of 
the member States of the Economic Community of Central African States on 
confidence-building measures, security, disarmament and development in Central 
Africa, at the close of the subregional seminar-workshop of 17 to 21 June 1991 
organized in Yaounde (A/46/307-S/22805); 

(i) Letter dated 29 July 1991 from the Charge d'affaires a,i. of the 
Permament Mission of Egypt to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/46/329-S/22855); 

(j) Letter dated 23 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to 
the Secretary-General (A/46/493); 

(k) Letter dated 18 November 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/697); 

(1) Letter dated 25 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/46/12). 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/46/L,l 

5. On 25 October, Afshanistan, Banqladesh, Belarus, Bolivia, Costa Rica, 
Eqvpt, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of). Mexico, Mongolia, Mvanmarr Peruf 
the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Ukraine, Venezuela and Yuaoslavia submitted a 
draft resolution entitled "World Disarmament Campaign" (A/C.1/46/L.l), which 
was later also sponsored by the Republic of Korea. The draft resolution was 
introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 30th meeting, on 7 November. 

6. At its 32nd meeting, on 8 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.l/46/L.l without a vote (see para, 20, draft resolution A). 

B. Draft resolution A/C!,1/46/L.6 

7. On 29 October, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Ch& th: 
Con9o, and Zaire submitted a draft resolution entitled "Regional 
confidence-building measures" (A1C.11461L.6). The draft resolution Was 

introduced by the representative of Cameroon at the 35th meeting, on 

. 
I 

14 November. 

/ . . . 



A/46/614 
English 
Page 4 

8. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was orally revised by the 
representative of Cameroon as follows: 

(a) In the third preambular paragraph, the words "and 45/58 P" were 
deleted; 

(b) At the end of operative paragraph 1, the words "in Central Africa" 
were inserted. 

9. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement on 
behalf of the Secretariat concerning the responsibilities entrusted to the 
Secretary-General under the draft resolution (see A/C,1/46/PV.35). 

10. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.l/46/L.6, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 20, draft 
resolution B), 

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.14 

11. On 30 October, Bansladesh, China, Ethiooia, on behalf of the Group of 
African States, Honduras, on behalf of the Group of Latin American and 
Caribbean States, Indonesia, Lao Peoole's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, 
( the Philippines, Sincraoore, Sri Lanka, n oli 
Thailand and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution entitled "United Nations 
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional 
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations 
Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and 
the Caribbean" (A/C.1/46/L.14), which was later also sponsored by the 
Democratic Peovle's Revublic of Korea and Samoa. The draft resolution was 
introduced by the representative of Jamaica at the 30th meeting, on 7 November. 

12. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted 
a statement on its programme budget implications (A/C.1/46/L.47). 

13. At its 37th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee voted on draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.14, as follows: 

(a) Operative paragraph 4 was adopted by a recorded vote of 107 to one) 
with 23 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan# 
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, 
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, 
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote 
d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Guinear 
Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic Of), 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 5 

'Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, La0 People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamabiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, 
Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, 
Zimbabwe. 

Asainst: United States of America. 

Abstaininq: Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Estonia, 
Finland, Germany, Iceland, India, Japan, Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, 
Papua New Guinea, Republic of Korea, Sweden, Ukraine, Union 
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland. 

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.14, as a whole, was adopted by a 
recorded vote of 131 to 1 (see para. 20, draft resolution C). The voting was 
as follows: 21 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, 
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Cape 
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, 
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C6te d'Ivoire, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic Of Korea, 
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, 
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Bungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, ItalYI 
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, ho People's 
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab 
Jmahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, 
Malaysia,.Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, 
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, 

indicated that it had 21 Subsequently, the delegation of Latvia 
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution. 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 6 

Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic Of Korea, 
Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Auainst: United States of America. 

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.19 

14. On 31 October, India, fndonesia, Mexico, Myanmar and the Sudan submitted 
a draft resolution entitled "Nuclear-arms freeze" (A/C.l/46/L,19), which was 
later also sponsored by Afshanistan and Bolivia. The draft resolution was 
introduced by the representative of India at the 31st meeting, on 7 November. 

15. At its 33rd meeting, on.11 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.19 by a recorded vote of 95 to 18, with 21 abstentions 
(see para. 20, draft resolution D). The voting was as follows: a/ 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa 
Rica, Cote d'fvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, 
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 
Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, ' 
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Togo, Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemenr 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Aaainst: Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, France, Germany? 
Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, 
Poland, Romania, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

a/ Subsequently, the delegations of Benin, Gabon, Rwanda and Uganda 
indicated that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution+ 

/ l .  .  



A/46/674 
English 
Page 7 

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, China, Denmark, 
Estonia, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, New Zealand, 
Norway, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Sweden, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics. 

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.20 

16. On 31 October, Afuhanistan, Alueria, Banaladesh, Bhutan, Ecuador, Ecn@& 
Ethiooia, India, Indonesia, Madauascar, Malavsia, Viet NW and Yusoslavia 
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Convention on the Prohibition of the 
Use of Nuclear Weapons" (A/C.1/46/L.20), which was later also sponsored by 
Bolivia and Lao Peoole's Democratic Republic. The draft resolution was 
introduced by the representative of India at the 31st meeting, on 7 November. 

17. At its 33rd meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.20 by a recorded vote of 96 to 17, with 20 abstentions 
(see para. 20, draft resolution E). The voting was as follows: %/ 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, 
Ethiopia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, 
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, MOnqOlia, 
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Aaainst: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Iceland, Italy, 
Luxembourg, Marshall Islands, Netherlands, New Zealand, 

41 Subsequently, the delegations of Benin, Gabon, Rwanda and Uganda 
indicated that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution, 
and the delegation of Germany indicated that it had intended to vote against 
the draft resolution. 

/ . . . 



A/46/614 
English 
Page 8 

Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

Abstaininq: Albania, Argentina, Austria, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, 
Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, 
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Poland, Republic of 
Korea, Romania, Sweden. 

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.33 

18. On 1 November, Araentina, Finland, France. Greece, Indonesia, Lesothoc 
Liberia, Mvanmar. New Zealand, Niaeria. the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics. Venezuela and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution entitled 
"United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services 
programme" (~/C.l/46/~.33), which was later also sponsored by Alaeria, 
Bolivia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Germany, Hunaarv, Lao Peonle's Democratic Reoublic, 
the Philinnines and Sweden. The draft resolution was introduced by the 
representative of Nigeria at the 32nd meeting, on 8 November. 

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.33 
without a vote (see para. 20, draft resolution F). 

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

20. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft resolutions: 

Review and implementation of the Concludina Document of the 
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly 

A 

World Disarmament Camoaian 

The General Assemblv, 

Recallinq the decision taken by the General Assembly in 1982 at its 
twelfth special session, the second special session devoted to disarmament, by 
which the World Disarmament Campaign was launched, 

Recallina also its various resolutions on the subject, including 
resolution 45159 C of 4 December 1990, 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 9 

Havinu examined the reports of the Secretary-General of 4 October 1991 on 
the implementation of the World Disarmament Campaign, 5/ and of 30 August 1991 
on the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters relating to the implementation of 
the World Disarmament Campaign, 6/ as well as the Final Act of the Ninth 
United Nations Pledging Conference for the Campaign, held on 29 October 1991, 

Takinu note with appreciation of the contributions that Member States 
have already made to the Campaign, 

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the World 
Disarmament Campaign of 4 October 1991; 

2. Commends the Secretary-General for his efforts to make effective use 
of the resources available to him in disseminating as widely as possible 
information on arms limitation and disarmament to elected officials, the 
media, non-governmental organizations, educational communities and research 
institutes, and in carrying out an active seminar and conference programme; 

3. Notes with appreciation the contributions to the efforts of the 
Campaign by the United Nations information centres and the regional centres 
for disarmament; 

4. Recommends that the Campaign, as a global information programmer 
should further focus its efforts: 

(a) To inform, to educate and to generate public understanding of the 
importance of and support for multilateral action, including by the United 
Nations and the Conference on Disarmament, in the field of arms limitation and 
disarmament, in a factual, balanced and objective manner; 

(b) To facilitate unimpeded access to and an exchange of information on 
ideas between the public sector and public interest groups and organizations, 
and to provide an independent source of balanced and factual information that 
takes into account a range of views to help further an informed debate on arms 
limitation, disarmament and security; 

(cl To organise meetings to facilitate exchanges of views and 
information between governmental and non-governmental sectors, and between 
governmental and other experts in order to facilitate the search for COmmOn 
ground: 

5. Invites all Member States to contribute to the World Disarmament 
Campaign Voluntary Trust Fund; 

51 A/46/498. 

61 A/46/400. 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 10 

6. Decides that at its forty-seventh session there should be a tenth 
United Nations Pledging Conference for the World Disarmament Campaign, and 
expresses the hope that on that occasion all those Member States which have 
not yet announced any voluntary contributions will do so, bearing in mind the 
objectives of the Third Disarmament Decade and the need to ensure its success; 

7. Reuuests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session a report covering both the implementation of the 
programme of activities of the Campaign by the United Nations system during 
1992 and the programme of activities contemplated by the system for 1993; 

a. Also decides to include in the provisional agenda of its 
forty-seventh session the item entitled "World Disarmament Campaign". 

B 

Resional confidence-buildinu measures 

The General Assembly, 

Recallinq the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its 
primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security 
in accordance with the Charter, 

Bearing in mind the guidelines for general and complete disarmament 
adopted at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to 
disarmament, 

Recallins also its resolutions 43/78 H and 43/85 of 7 December 1988, 
44/245 of 3 November 1989 and 45158 M of 4 December 1990, 

Considerinq the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building 
measures taken at the initiative and with the participation of all States 
concerned and taking into account the specific characteristics of each region, 
in that they can contribute to regional disarmament and to international 
security, in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations, 

Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional 
disarmament, can be devoted to economic and social development and to the 
protection of the environment for the benefit of all peoples, in particular 
those of the developing countries, 

Bearing in mind the Final Document adopted by the States members of the 
Economic Community of Central African States I/ on confidence-building 
measures, security, disarmament and development in their subregion, 

P A/46/307-S/22805, annex. 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 11 

1. SuDDorts and encourages efforts aimed at promoting 
confidence-building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to 
ease regional tensions and to further disarmament and non-proliferation 
measures at regional and subregional levels in Central Africa; 

2. Welcomes the initiative taken by the States members of the Economic 
Community of Central African States with a view to developing 
confidence-building measures, disarmament and development in their subregion, 
by, in particular, establishing under the auspices of the United Nations a 
standing advisory committee on security questions in Central Africa: 

3. Thanks the Secretary-General for his contribution to the Yaounde 
seminar-workshop and requests him to continue providing assistance to the 
Central African States in implementing the recommendations and conclusions set 
forth in the Final Document of the seminar-workshop, by, in particular, 
establishing a standing advisory committee on security questions in Central 
Africa: 

4. Further resuesta the Secretary-General to submit to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session a report on the implementation of the 
present resolution: 

5. Decidea to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled "Regional confidence-building measures". 

C 

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament 
in Africa, United Nations Reaional Centre for Peace and 
Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations 

o e, Disarmament and Deve Re i nal Centre f r Peat Q o loument 
in Latin America and the Caribbean 

Recallinq its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41160 D of 
3 December 1986, 42139 y of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 D of 7 December 1988 on 
the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, 
41160 J of 3 December 1986, 42/39 K of 30 November 1987 and 43176 R of 
7 December 1988 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament 
and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean, 42139 D of 
30 November 1987 and 43/76 G of 7 December 1988 on the United Nations Regional 
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia, and 44/117 F of 15 December 1989 and 
45159 E of 4 December 1990 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and 
Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and 
Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for 
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean, 

Reaffirminq its resolutions 37/100 F of 13 December 1982, 38173 J Of 
15 December 1983, 39/63 F of 12 December 1984, 40/94 A of 12 December 1985, 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 12 

41/59 M of 3 December 1986, 42/39 E of 30 November 1987, 44/117 B of 
15 December 1989 and 45/58 M of 4 December 1990 on regional disarmament, 

Convinced that the initiatives and activities mutually agreed upon by 
Member States of the respective regions aimed at fostering mutual confidence 
and security, as well as the implementation and coordination of regional 
activities under the World Disarmament Campaign, would encourage and 
facilitate the development of effective measures of confidence-building, arms 
limitation and disarmament in these regions, 

Welcominq the programme of activities carried out by the regional 
centres, which have contributed substantially to understanding and cooperation 
among the States in each particular region and have thereby strengthened the 
role assigned to each regional centre in the areas of peace, disarmament and 
development, 

Recoqnizinq the need to provide the centres with financial viability and 
stability so as to facilitate the effective planning and implementation of 
their respective programmes of activities, 

Expressing its gratitude to the Member States and international 
governmental and non-governmental organisations and foundations that have 
contributed to the trust funds of the three regional centres, 

Takins note with apureciation of the report of the Secretary-General on 
the three regional centres, 81 and of his efforts in providing the necessary 
administrative measures to permit the effective functioning of the three 
centres, which are an integral part of the Department for Disarmament Affairs, 

1, Encourages the regional centres to continue intensifying their 
efforts, in accordance with their mandates, in promoting cooperation among the 
States in their respective regions with a view to facilitating the development 
of effective measures of confidence-building, arms limitation and disarmament; 

2. Commends the Secretary-General for all the efforts he has made t0 
assist the regional centres in carrying out their programmes of activities, 
and requests him to continue to provide all the necessary support to the 
centres: 

3. Aooeals once again to Member States, as well as to international 
governmental and non-governmental organisations and foundations, to make 
voluntary contributions in order to strengthen the programmes of activities of 
the regional centres and their effective implementation; 

81 A/46/365. 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 13 

4. Decides that, to ensure the continued financial viability of the 
centres, the administrative costs of the centres shall be financed from the 
regular budget ; 

5. Reuuests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at 
'its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution. 

D 

The General Assemblv, 

Recallinq that, in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the 
General Assembly, g/ the first special session devoted to disarmament, adopted 
in 1978 and unanimously and categorically reaffirmed in 1982 during the 
twelfth special session of the General Assembly, &Q/ the second special 
session devoted to disarmament, the Assembly expressed deep concern over the 
threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the existence of nuclear 
weapons, 

Reaffirminq the goal of general and complete disarmament under effective 
international control, 

wq the new trends that have led to an improvement in the 
international security environment, 

Welcomina also the announcements of the significant measures, including 
unilateral steps, by the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, which could signal the reversal of the nuclear-arms race, 

Welcoming further the Treaty between the United States of America and the 
union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Reduction and Limitation Of 
Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on 31 July 1991, and expressing the hope that 
it Will be followed by agreement at an early date on further cuts in strategic 
nuclear arsenals, 

Convinced of the urgency of further negotiations for the substantial 
reduction and qualitative limitation of existing nuclear armsI 

Considerinq that a nuclear-arms freeze, while not an end in itself, would 
constitute an effective step to prevent the qualitative improvement of 

2x1 Resolution S-10/2, 

-191 See Official Records of the General Assemblv, Twelfth Snecial 
Session. Annexes, agenda items 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32. 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 14 

existing nuclear weaponry during the period when the negotiations take place, 
and that at the same time would reinforce the favourable environment for the 
conduct of negotiations to reduce and eventually eliminate nuclear weapons, 

Convinced also that the undertakings derived from the freeze can be 
effectively verified, 

Welcominq the unilateral steps taken by the nuclear-weapon States for the 
cessation of the production of highly enriched uranium for nuclear weapons and 
for the shutting down of reactors producing weapons-grade plutonium, 

Notins with concern that all nuclear-weapon States have not so far taken 
any collective action in response to the call made in the relevant resolutions 
on the question of a nuclear-arms freeze, 

Convinced that the current international situation is most conducive to 
nuclear disarmament, 

1. Urges the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, as the two major nuclear-weapon States, to reach agreement on an 
immediate nuclear-arms freeze, which would, inter alia, provide for a 
simultaneous total stoppage of any production of nuclear weapons and a 
complete cut-off in the production of fissionable material for weapons 
purposes; 

2. Calls upon all nuclear-weapon States to agree, through a joint 
declaration, to a comprehensive nuclear-arms freeze, whose structure and scope 
would be the following: 

(a) It would embrace: 

(i) A comprehensive test ban on nuclear weapons and on their delivery 
vehicles; 

(ii) The complete cessation of the manufacture of nuclear weapons and Of 
their delivery vehicles; 

(iii) A ban on all further deployment of nuclear weapons and of their 
delivery vehicles; 

(iv) The complete cessation of the production of fissionable material for 
weapons purposes; 

(b) It would be subject to appropriate and effective measures and 
procedures of verification: 

3. Reuuests once again the nuclear-weapon States to submit a joint 
report, or separate reports, to the General Assembly, prior to the opening Of 
its forty-seventh session, on the implementation of the present resolution: 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 15 

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled "Nuclear-arms freeze". 

E 

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weaoons 

The General Assembly, 

Convinced that the existence and use of nuclear weapons pose the greatest 
threat to the survival of mankind, 

Convinced also that nuclear disarmament is the only ultimate guarantee 
against the use of nuclear weapons, 

Convinced further that a multilateral agreement prohibiting the use or 
threat of use of nuclear weapons should strengthen international security and 
contribute to the climate for negotiations leading to the ultimate elimination 
of nuclear weapons, 

Welcominq the Treaty between the United States of America and the Union 
of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic 
Offensive Arms, signed on 31 July 1991, 

Welcomina also their announcements of significant measuresI including 
unilateral steps, which could signal the reversal of the nuclear arms race, 
and expressing the hope that these will be followed by agreements at an early 
date on further cuts in strategic nuclear arsenals, 

Conscious that the recent steps taken by the United States of America and 
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics towards a reduction of their nuclear 
weapons and the improvement in the international climate can contribute 
towards the goal of complete elimination of nuclear weapons, 

Recallinq that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth 
Special Session of the General Assembly, 9/ it is stated that all States 
should actively participate in efforts to bring about conditions in 
international relations among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of 
nations in international affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude 
the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, 

Reaffirminq that the use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the 
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared in its 
resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33171 B of 14 December 1978, 
34183 G of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980 and 36192 I of 
9 December 1981, 

Notinq with reqret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its 1991 
session, was not able to undertake negotiations with a view to achieving 
agreement on an international convention prohibiting the use or threat of Use 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 16 

of nuclear weapons under any circumstances, taking as a basis the text annexed 
to General Assembly resolution 45159 B of 4 December 1990, 

1. Reiterates its reauest to the Conference on Disarmament to commence 
negotiations, as a matter of priority, in order to reach agreement on an 
international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear 
weapons under any circumstances, taking as a basis the draft Convention on the 
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolution; 

2, Also reauests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General 
Assembly on the results of these negotiations. 

ANNEX 

Draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of 
Nuclear Weapons 

The States Parties to this Convention, 

Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the. 
existence of nuclear weapons, 

Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the 
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, 

Convinced that this Convention would be a step towards the complete 
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament 
under strict and effective international control, 

Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal, 

Have aareed as follows: 

The States Parties to this Convention solemnly undertake not to use or 
threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances. 

Article 2 

This Convention shall be of unlimited duration. 

Article 3 

1. This Convention'shall be open to all States for signature. Any 
State that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in 
accordance with paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any time, 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 17 

2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory 
States. Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. 

3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deposit of instruments 
of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the Governments of the 
five nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article. 

4. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are 
deposited after the entry into force of the Convention, it shall enter into 
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or 
accession. 

5. The depository shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding 
States of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument 
of ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of this 
Convention, as well as of the receipt of other notices. 

6. This Convention shall be registered by the depository in accordance 
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations. 

Article 4 

This Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian 
and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send duly certified copies 
thereof to the Government of the signatory and acceding States. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by 
their respective Governments, have signed this Convention, opened for 
signature at on the day 
of one thousand nine hundred and . 

F 

United Nations disarmament fellowshio, training and advisory 
services nrocfamme 

Havins considered the report of the Secretary-General on the United 
Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services programme, 111 

Recallinq its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document 
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 9/ the first special 

u/ A/46/530. 

/ . . . 



A/46/614 
English 
Page 18 

session devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowships on 
disarmament, as well as its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding 
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, u/ the 
second special session devoted to disarmament, in which it decided, 
inter alia, to continue the programme and to increase the number of 
fellowships from twenty to twenty-five as from 1983, 

Notino with satisfaction that the programme has already trained an 
appreciable number of public officials selected from geographical regions 
represented in the United Nations system, most of whom are now in positions of 
responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs in their respective 
countries or Governments, 

Recallins also its resolutions 37/100 G of 13 December 1982, 38/73 C of 
15 December 1983, 39/63 B of 12 December 1984, 40/151 H of 16 December 1985, 
41/60 H of 3 December 1986, 42139 I of 30 November 1987, 43176 F of 
7 December 1988, 44/117 E of 15 December 1989 and 45/59 A of 4 December 1990, 

Notino also with satisfaction that the programme, as designed, has 
enabled an increased number o.f public officials, particularly from the 
developing countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of disarmament, 

Believing that the forms of assistance available to Member States, 
particularly to developing countries, under the programme will enhance the 
capabilities of their officials to follow ongoing deliberations and 
negotiations on disarmament, both bilateral and multilateral, 

1. Reaffirms its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding 
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly and the report 
of the Secretary-General 121 approved by resolution 33/71 E of 
14 December 1978: 

2. Expresses its auDreciation to the Governments of Finland, France, 
Germany, Japan, Sweden and the United States of America for inviting the 1991' 
fellows to study selected activities in the field of disarmament, thereby 
contributing to the fulfilment of the overall objectives of the programme: 

3. Notes with satisfaction that, within the framework of the programmet 
the Department for Disarmament Affairs organized regional disarmament 
workshops for Africa in April 1989 at Lagos, Nigeria, for Asia and the Pacific 
in January 1991 at Bandung, Indonesia, and for Latin America and the Caribbean 
in July 1991 at Mexico City, Mexico; 

4. EXDreSSeS its aDoreciation to the Governments of Nigeria, Indonesia 
and Mexico for their support of the regional disarmament workshops, as well as 
the Governments of Norway and New Zealand for making financial contributions; 

Q/ A/33/305. 

/ . . . 



A/46/674 
English 
Page 19 

5. Commends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the 
programme has continued to be carried out; 

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue the implementation of the 
prograsnme within existing resources and to report to the General Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session. 


