







































UNITED
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
QENERAL

A/46/627
25 November 1991

I ORIQINAL: ENQLISH

Forty-sixth session
Agenda items 101 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE QRANTINQ
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES
BY THE SPECIALIZED AQENCIES AND THE INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

I REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

I mnortaut Mr, James KEMRER (New Zealand)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the Qeneral Assembly,
on the recommendation of the Qenerel Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-sixth session the following items:

*@lOl. Implementation of the Declaration on the Qranting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the epecialiaed agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations."

"'12. Report of the Economic and Social Council."

At the sankr meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth Committee
agenda iten: 101, together with chapters I and VIII (sect. C) of the report of
the Economic and Social Council (A/46/3), 11 which relate to the item.

2, At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 19, 99, 101 and 12, and ~03, on the

11 Qfficial Records of the General Assemblv.  Fortv-sixth Session,
m-eat No. 3 (A/46/3/Rev,l).

I 91-45600 0663P (E)

Beat Copy AvaIlable

/ . . .



A/46/627
English
Page 2

understanding that individual proposals on matters oovered  by those iteme
would be considered separately.

3. The Fourth Committee oonsidered  items 101 and 12 at its 7th to 17th
meetings, between 15 Jotober and 15 November (see A:C.4/46/88.7-17).  The
general debate on the items referred to t&over  including the present items,
took ylrrco at the 8th to 14th meetings, between 18 and 29 October.

4. At the 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Rapporteur of the 8peOial
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Deolaration on the Granting of Independenoe  to Colonial Countries and Peoples
made a statement in which he gave an acoount  of the relevant activities of t h e
Special Committee during 1991 and drew attention to chapter VI of the report
of that Committee relating to item 101 (~146123 (Part IV)) 21 oontaining,
-A, the related draft resolution eUbmitt8d by the Committee for the
consideration of the Fourth Committee.

5, During iti oonsideration of the item, th8 Fourth Committee had before it
the report of the Secretary-Qeneral  submitted in pursuance of paragraph 19 of
Qenoral  Assembly resolution 45118  of 20 November 1990 (A/46/229).

6, At its 5th and 8th meetings , on 9 and 18 October, respoatively, the
Fourth Committee granted requeets for hearing to Mr, 3. A. Gons&les-Gana&lea
(A/C,4/46/7)  and Mr. Carlyle Corbin, Working Oroup of Non-Independent
Caribbean Countries of the Caribbean Development and Cooperation Committee
(A/C.4/46/7/Add.l). Statements were made at the 7th meeting, on 15 October,
by Mr. Gonadlea-Qons&lea (A/C.4/46/SR.7)  and at the 10th meeting, o n
22 Ootober, by Mr. Corbin (A/C.4/46/8R.10).

7. At the 15th meeting, on 6 NOVemb8r, the representative of the C o n g o
introduced amendments (A/C.4/46/L.8)  to the draft resolution relating to the
implementation of the Declaration by the speoialiaed agenoies  contained i n
document  A/46/23 (Part IV), chapter VI, paragraph 18. The amendments
consisted of the followings

(a) The fifteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

a its @eo OO~CB~R  over the destabil isat ion by South
Africa of the front-line and neighbouring States, whether through direct
aggression, sponsorship of surrcgates, economic subversion or other
means, the forma and consequences of which stand well documented in
United Nations and other publications,**

would be replaced by:

21 To be incorporated in Official Records of t& dengralm ,
ment No. 23 (A/46/23).

/ . . .



A/46/627
English
Page 3

#*Not with se- the ooatinuiag  effects of the aota of
aggression and destabilisation that have been committed by South Africa
against neighbouring independent African States,”

(b) The following new text would be inserted as the sixteenth preambular
paragraph t

I'm- that assistance hae continued to be
extended to refugees from southern Afrioe  through the Office of the
United Nations High Commiseionar  for Refugees,”

(c) The present eighteenth (new nineteenth) preambulrr  paragraph, which
read a

‘W&&w wiurave. JOIICBX~  the extensive links and collaboration
between the apartheid regime of South Africa and certain countries in the
polit ical ,  diplomatic, economio, nuclear, military and other fields, and
the growing military and nuclear cooperation between racist Pretoria and
Israel,”

would be replaced by:

“PSEayelv  co- that while the international community h a s
generally adhered to the Programme of Action contained in the Declaration
of Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, s o m e
Member States have continued relations with South Africa in the
polit ical ,  diplomatic,  eoonomic, nuclear, military and other fields,”

(d) Operative paragraph 19, which read :

“19. &x&mna the extensive links and collaboration between the
apartheid regime of South Africa and certain countries in the political
diplomatic, economic, nuclear, military and other fields, and the growing
military and nuclear cooperation between the racist regime and Israelr”

would be replaced by:

“19. &&JQ~ a l l  S ta tes , especially those that continue to have
economic, financial, military and nuclear links to South Africa, t o
adhere fully to the Progrsmme of Action contained irr the Declaration on
apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa and to
honour their obligations under Security Council resolution 421 (1977) of
9 December 19771”

8. At the 17th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Gabon, on
behalf of the Group of African States, introduced amendments (A/C.4/46/L.14)
to the draft resolution relating to the implementation of the Declaration by
the specialized agencies contained in document A/46/23 (Part IV), chapter VI,
paragraph 18. The amendments consisted of the followfngr

/ . . .



A/46/637
English
Page 4

(a) The fifteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

“~~~ deen c-m over the destabilisation by South
Africa of the front-line and neighbouring States, whether through direct
aggression, sponsorship of surrogates, economic subversion or other
means, the forms and consequences of which stand well documented in
United Nations and other publications,”

would be replaced byt

“WawithiQconcerrr the continuing effects of the acts of
aggressions  and destabilisation  that have been committed by South Africa
against neighbouring independent African States,”

(b) The eighteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

‘*-with grave co- the extensive links and collaboration
between the apartheid regime of South Africa and certain countries in the
political, diplomatic, economic, nuclear, military and other fields, and
the growing military and nuclear cooperation between racist Pretoria and
Israe l ,”

would be replaced by:

"-1~ cm that while the international community has
generally adhered to the Programme of Action contained in the Declaration
on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, some
Member States have continued relations with South Africa in the
pol i t i ca l ,  d ip lomat ic , economic and other fields,”

(c) Operative paragraph 19, which read:

"19. w the extensive links and collaboration between the
apartheid regime of South Africa and certain countries in the political,
diplomatic, economic, nuclear, military and other fields, and the growing
military and nuclear cooperation between the racist regime and Israel)*’

would be replaced by:

"19. m all States, especially those that continue to have
economic and financial links to South Africa, to adhere fully to the
Programme of Action contained in the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern African”

9. At the same meeting, the representative  of the Congo informed the Fourth
Committee that his delegation had withdrawn amendments A/C.4/46/L.8  to the
draft resolution relating to the implementation of the Declaration by the
special ised agencies (A/46/23  (Part IV), chap. VI, para. 18).

/ . . .



A/46/627
English
Page 5

10. Also at its 17th meeting, on 15 November, the Fourth Committee took the
following action on the draft resolution (A/46/23 (Part IV), chap. VI.
pare. 18) and the amendments thereto (A/C.4/46/L.14)%

(a) The Committee adopted the amendment to the fifteenth preambular
paragraph by a recorded vote of 87 to none, with 36 abstentions. 91 The
voting was as follows:

Xn: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia. Botswana, Braail, Brunei Darussalam
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, CSte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, La0 People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Moaambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, 0manr
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint
Lucia, Sao Tome and Prfncipe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanrania, Vanuatu, Venesuela, Vfet Nam,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Acrainst: None.

-: Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Csechoslovakia,  Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Netherlands, Kew Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Spain,
Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay.

(b) The Committee adopted the amendment to the eighteenth preambular
paragraph by a recorded vote of 83 to 1, with 41 abstentions. a/ The voting
was follows:

31 Statements in explanation of vote wer?t made by representatives of
Argentina, Australia, Austria, the Congo, Greece, Hungary, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, the Netherlands (on behalf also of the European
Community), New Zealand, Norway (on behalf also of Denmark, Iceland, Finland
and Sweden), Papua New Guinea, Spain, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
the United States of America, Uruguay and Venezuela.

/ . . .



Ai
Rnglish
Page 6

rn: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Btaail, Brunei Daruasalam,  Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana,
Xaiti, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mozambiquer
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama.
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and
Prfncipe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,  Singapore,  Sri
Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, Vanuatu, Veneauela, Viet Nam, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe*

Acrainst: United States of America.

mt Albania, Australia,  Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cameroon, C&e
d*Ivoire,  Caechoslovakia,  Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania,
Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Grent Britain and
Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Yugoslavia.

(c) The Committee adopted the amendment to operative paragraph 19 by a
recorded vote of 83 to none, with 41 abstentions. 91 The voting was as
followsr

In: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail,  Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jaxahiriya,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mozambique, Myaumar, Namibia, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tomania, Vanuatu,
Veneauela, Vfet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

lbgh?at: None.

/ . . .



A/46/627
English
Page 7

m: Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, CamerOonI
Csechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, Prancer
Germany,  Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America, Uruguay.

(d) The Committee adopted as a whole , as amended, the draft resolution
contained in document A/46/23 (Part IV), chapter VI, paragraph 16, by a
recorded vote of 94 to 27, with 13 abstentions (see para. 11). 91 The voting
was as follows:

Tnfavourr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina l)aSor
Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Djibouti, Bcuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq8 Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mosambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippins, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Pri Lanka, Suriname, Swasiland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Rmirates, United Republic of Tanaania, Vanuatu,
Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zairer Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

-: Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Caechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, GermcIIy,
Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

mt Argentina, Gate &'Ivoire, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Micronesia
(Federated States of), New Zealand, Republic of Korea,
Samoa, Solomon Islands, Spain, Turkey, Uruguay.

/ . . .



A/46/627
English
Page 8

RECOmNDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

11. The Fourth Coimnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

ntaaon of the Declaration- Or-
9f W&p93&nce to ColoaW Cou~Rrm Peool92
h-p& sueciaAised aq9a9ies a n d

stit&$ons wsociated with -United m

Havipg cm the item entitled *@Implementation cf the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
specialised agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations",

Having cogsidered the reports submitted on the item by the
Secretary-General 41 and the Acting Chairman of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 5/

v the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, 61

m its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, as well as all other relevant
resolutions adopted by the General Assembly on this subject, including in
particular resolution 43147 of 22 November 1988 on the International Decade
for the Eradication of Colonialism,

Recalling ala9 its resolution S-1611 of 14 December 1989 containing the
Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa,

Bearinu in ti the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads-of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity,

41 A/46/229.

51 A/M!.109/L.1761

61 A/46/23 (Part IV), chap. VI.

/ . . .



A/46/637
English
Page 9

&BpkJJ that the objectives of the Charter of the United Nations
and the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
P8Opl8s have not been fully achieved,

RbGQgg that permanent peace and stability in southern Africa can
,only be achieved when the system of apartheid in South Africa has been
eradicated arrd South Africa has been transformed into a united, democratic and
non-racial country, and reiterating therefore that all the necessary measures
should be adopted at the present time to bring a speedy end to the apartheid
system in the interest of all the people of Southern Africa, the African
continent and the world at large,

&&&pg that the large majority of the remaining colonial Territories ar8
small island Territories,

ES&&L&I its resolution 43/189 of 20 December 1988 concerning specific
measures in favour of island developing countries,

Bearing in u the conclusions and recommendations of the Meeting of
Governmental Ezperts of Island Developing Countriee and Donor Countriee am
Organisations, held at United Nationa Ueadquarters  in New York from 25 to
29 June 1990, p/

n relevant resolutions of the Caribbean Development and
Cooperation Committee concerning the access of colonial Territories to
programmes of the United Nations system,

NQI&~ the assistance extended thus far to colonial Territories by
certain specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nations
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, and
Considering that such assistance should 3a expanded  further, commensurate with
the pr8SIBing need8 Of th8 peOpl8S concerned for eXt8rnal aSSiStaXW8,

m the importance elf securing necessary resourc8S for funding
expanded assistance programmes for the peoples concerned and the need to
enlist the support of all major funding institutions within the United Nations
system in that regard,

nu with sedous con- the Continuing effects of the acts of
aggression and destabilisation that have been committed by South Africa
against neighbouring independent  African States,

Reaffitmincr the responsibility of the specialised agencies and other
organisations of the United Nations system to take all the necessary measures,
within their respective Sphere?3  of competence, to ensure the full
implementation, without further delay, of General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations, particularly

L/ A/CONF.147/5-TD/B/AC.46/4,  chap. II.

/ . . .



A/46/627
English
Page 10

thooo relating to the ortoamion of assistance to the peop les  of the aolonial
Terr i tor ies ,

#  to the Qsneral  Beoretarfat of the
Organisation of African Unity for the continued aooperation and assistance it
has extended to the speoiali8ed  aqenaier  and other orqanioations  of the U n i t e d
Nations system in this regard,

melv m that while the international community has generally
adhered to the Progranmw of Aation  aontained  in the Dealaration on Apar the id
and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Afriaa, acme Member States have
continued relationr with South Africa in the political, diplomatic, economic
and other f i e lds ,

v the importance of the aotivities  of non-governmental
organ i sa t ions  aimed at putting an cud to the assistance whiah is still being
rendered to South Afriaa by some specialised agencies,

m its conviction that closer contacts and consultations between
and emong  the epeaialioed  aqenciea  and other orqaniaationa of the United
Nations system and regional orqanirationa  help to facilitate the effective
formula t ion  of assi8tanae  proqrMrmes  to the peoples aoncerned,

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the
aativitier of the speaialiaed agencies and other orqaniaations of the Uni ted
Nations nyatem in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions
relating ts decolonisat ion,

-in the extremely fragile eaonomie6 of the small  bland
Territories  and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such aa hurr icanes
and cyclones , and recalling relevant resolutions of the Qeneral Aswnbly,

1. &proven  the chapter of the report of the Special Comnittee on t h e
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the qranting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item) p/

2. Recornmenda  t\at al l  States  intensify their  efforts  in  the
apecfaliaed  agencies and other orqa%raationu  of the United Nations system t o
ensure the full and effective implementation of the Declaration on the
qrantinq of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations eyetern)

3. Resffirms  that the spwialiaed  agencies and other organisations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations ln their efforts to contribute to
the full Implementation,  without further delay, of the Dealaration on t h e
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries a~& Peoples and all o ther
relevant General Assembly resolutionsr

/ .*.



A/46/627
English
Page 11

4, Reaffirma  that the reaognition by the Genera l  Ansemblyr tiie
SeouritY  Council Md other United Nationa orgMe of the legitimaoy  of t h e
struggle of Colonial peoples to exercise their right to self-determination and
independence entails, as a oorollary, the extension of all neaemeary  moral and
material assistMae to those peoplee Md their national liberation movements

by the specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nationsr

5. E~wMwL~~~~~  to those speoialiaed agenoies and other
Organisations of the United Nations system that have continued to cooperate
with the United Nations and the Organisation  of Afrioan  Unity in t h e
implementation of Oeneral  Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations, Md urges all the apeoialised  agencies and
other organisations of the UnL;;ed Nations system to aaoelerate the full and
spsedy  implementatJ.on  of the relevant provis ions of  those resolutionst

6. Rgq~&.6 the specialised agencies and other organisat ions of t h e
United Naticns  system, as well as international and regional organimations, to
examine  and review conditions in each Territory so aa to take appropr ia te
measures to accelerate progress in the economic and sooial sectors of those
Terr i tor ies ;

7. N all speoialiaed agenoies and other orgsnisations  of t h e
United Nations system to strengthen measures of support and formulate adequate
programmes of assistance to the peoples of colonial Territories, bearing in
mind that such assistanoe should not only meet their ilmnediate needs but a l s o
creatb conditions for development after they have exercised their right to
self-determination and independence1

8. Alao the specialised agencies and other organisations of
the United Nations system to provide , through M inter-agency frame,ro*:k, the
necessary assistance to colonial Territories in order to alleviate the adverse
conditions arising from the interplay of a combination of factors reflecting
the vulnerable character of their economiesr

9. W reau.g&S  the specialised agenoies Mb other organirations of
the United Nations system, in formulat!ng their assistauae  programmes, to t a k e
due account of the conclusions and recommendations entitled,  Vhallengee and
opportunit ies: A strategic framework” of the Meeting of Governmental Experts
of Island Developing Countries and Donor Countries and Organiaatione, held at
United Nations Headquarters in June 19908  21

10.  -ta QBC~ aq& the speoialised agencies  and o ther  organiaa:ions
of the United Nations system to continue to provide all humanitarian, material
and moral aesistance  to Namibia and all newly independent and emerging States
ao as to enable them to consolidate their political independence and achieve
genuine economic independencer

11. V_tclea the executive heads of the epecial iaed agencies  and other
organisations  of the United Nations system, in cooperation with the reg iona l
and other organisations  where appropriate, to submit to their governing and
legislative organs concrete groposals for the full implementation of t h e

/ . . .



/46/627
English
Page 13

relevant United Nations decisions , particularly  apeoifia programmes o f
assibltanoe  to the peoples of the colonial Territories and their national
l iberation movementet

12. Recanansnds  to the executive heads of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund to draw the attention of their governing bodieo  to
the present resolution and to consider introducing flexible procedures to
prepare specifier programmes for the peoples of the colonial Territories]

13. Upaea the speaialiaed agencies and other organisations of the United
Nations system that have not already done so to inalude in the agenda of t h e
regular meetings of their governing bodies a separate item on the progress
they have made in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)
and other relevant resolutions of the United Mationst

14. Weloomea  the continued initiative exeraised by the United Nations
DeqGopmznt  Programme in maintaining alose liaison among the speoial ized
agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system, and in
coordiaating  the activities of the agenc ies  in extending  e f fec t i ve  as s i s tance
to the peoples of colonial Territories, and oalla  upon the speaialized
agencies and other organisations o f  the United Nations system, as a matter o f
urgency, to contribute generously to the relief, rehabilitation and
reconstruction efforts in those Non-Self-Qoverning Territories affeoted by
natural disastersr

15. m the administering Powers conaerned  to faoilitate the
participation of the representatives of the Qovernments  of Trust a n d
Non-Self-governing Territories at the relevant meetings and conferences of the
agencies and organisations  so that the Territories may draw the maximum
benefits from the related activities of the specialized  agenaies and o t h e r
organizationu  of the United Nation6 systemr

16. Further  urggd the epecialized  agencies and other organizst ionz o f
the United Nations system to adhere to the Programme of Action contained in
the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern
Africa, An particular with regard to increased support for the opponents o f
apartheid, the use of concerted and effective measures aimed at app ly ing
pressure to ensure a speedy end to apartheid and ensuring the non-relaxation
of existing measures to encourage the South African regime to eradicate
apartheid until there is clear evidence of profound and irreversible changesr

17, s_tfe8888,  in the context of the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, the need for the zpecial ized
agencies and other organizatione of the United Nations system to render all
possible assistance to the front-line and neighbouring States to enable them
to rebuild their economies, which have been adversely affected by actz of
aggression and destabilization  by South Africa, to withstand any further such
acts and to continue to support the people of South Afr ica ;

18. rnvites  the apecialized agencies and other organizations  of t h e
United Nations system to cooperate with the Action for Resisting Invasion,

/ . . .



A/46/627
English
Page 13

Colonialism and Apartheid Fund established by the Eighth Coaferenae  of Heads
of State or Government  of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare from 1 t o
6 September 1966, with the common objective of providing emergency assistance
to the front-line States and national liberation movements struggling against
the apartheid regime1

19. J&,g95 all States, especially those which continue to have economic
and finanaiel links to South Africa, to adhere fully to the Programme o f
Action contained in the Dealaration on Apartheid and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa,

20. m that all governments should intensify their efforts i n
the specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system
of which they are members to ensure the full anc¶  effective implementation o f
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of t h e
Unitecl Nations and, in that conneation,  shoulc¶  accord  priority to the question
of providing assistance on an emergency basis to the peoples of the colonial
Territories1

21. Regueats the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialiaecl
agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations an8 to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the
assistance of those agencies and organisations , a report on the acticn taken
in implementation of the relevant resolutions, including the present
resolution, since the circulation of hie previous reportr

22. Commenas  the Economic and Social Council for its debate and
resolution on this issue and requests it to continue, as appropriate, t o
consider, in consultation with the Speaial Committee on the Situation with
regarcl to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Indepenclence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, appropriate measures for
coordination of the policies anr3 activities of the special ised agencies  and
other organisations of the Unitecl Nations system in implementing the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly;

23. w the specialised agencies to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the present resolution)

24. m the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution t o
the governing bodies  of the appropriate specialiaea agencies and international
institutions associated with the United Nations so that these bodies take the
necessary measures to comply with the resolution, anti further requests the
Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh
session on the implementation of the present resolutionr

25. Peauesta the Special Committee to continue to examine the question
and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session.


