







































UNITED 
NATIONS 

A 

- -- . . . . I .---. ~___~_____ -. 

General Assembly Distr. 
LXMITED 

A/46/L.44 
10 December 1991 

OBIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
hgrnda item 36 

LAW OF THE SEA 

Be-us. Brazil, Cameroon. Cw 
f 

UVerdelChils,. 
. 

Guznea Brssan. - * 

5. Portuaal, Sierra Leku 

m its previous resolutions. including resolution 45/145 of 
14 December 1990, regarding the law of the eea, 

. ~ that, aa stated in the third preambular paragraph of the 
United rations Convention on the Law of the Sea, I/ the problems of ocaan 
space are closely laterrelated and need to be considered an ti whole, 

Cenvfncsd that it is important to safeguard the unified character of the 
Co&x&ion and related resolutiona adopted thereuith and to apply them in a 
manner consistent with that character and vith their object and purpose, 

* . w the used for State8 to ensute consistent application of the 
Convention, as well a8 the need for hatmonizatfon of national legislation with 
the provisions of the Convention, 

11 Qffipial Rocord~&$.& Third United NatiQns Conferens on thftm 
f&&he SeQ, vol. XVII (United Nations pub2icatXon, Sales No. E.S4.V.3), 
document A/CONP.62/122. 

92-48421 40332 (Ei / . . . 



W46/L.l4 
English 
Page 2 

CorlsfdsrinP that, in its resolution 2749 (Xxv) of 17 December 1970, it 
proclaimed that the sea-bed and ocean floor, and the subsoil thereof, beyond 
the limits of national jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as "the Area”), 
au well ar the reaourcen of the Area, are the common heritage of mankind, 

n that the Convention provides the regime to be applied to the 
Area and its resources, 

* ~ . wim the expressions of willingness to explore all 
possibilities of addressing issues of concern to some States in order to 
secure universal participation in the Convention. 21 

w the need for cooperation in the early and effective 
implementation by the Preparatory Conrnission of resolution II of the Third 
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, 91 

. . e the progress made in the Preparatory Commission 
since its inception, including the registration of six pioneer investors $1 
and the designation by the Preparatory Commission of reserved areas fur the 
Authority from the application areas submitted by the pioneer inveutors 
pursuant to resolution II, bearing in mind that such registration entails both 
rights and obligatfonu for pioneer investors, 

v the increasing needs of countries, especially developing 
countries, for information, advice and aouistance in the implementation of the 
Convention and in their developmental process for the full realization of the 
benefita of the comprehensive legal regime established by the Convention, 

Concerned that the developing countries are as yet unable to take 
effective measures for the full realization of these benefits owing to the 
lack of resource8 and of the necessary scientific and technological 
capabilities, 

m the need to enhance and supplement the efforts of States and 
competent international organisations aimed at enabling developing countries 
to acquire such capabilities, 

m ~1s~ that the Convention encompasses all uses and resources 
of the sea and that all related activities within the United Nations system 
need to be Implemented in a manner consistent with it, 

21 See A/44/650 and Corr.1, paras. 156 auC 158. 

tk/ See A/46/724, paras. lrlfi-1.53.. 

I... 



A/46/L. 44 

English 
Page 3 

paeplv co- at the current state of the marine environment, 

Miudful of the importance of the Convention for the protection of the 
mar in0 environment, 

wn the use of fishing methods and practic88, including 
those aimed at evading regulations and controla, which can have an adverse 
impact ou thr conservation and management of marine living reuourcesr 

D the need for effective and balanced conservation and 
management of living marine r8aourcea, giving full effect to the relevant 
provisions in the Convention, 

1 ”  v of activities carried out in 1991 under the major programme 
on marine affair8. set forth in chapter 25 0,: the medium-term plan for the 
period 2984-1989 and extended for the period 1990-1991, in accordance with the 
report of the Socretar,+%a8ral, s/ as approved in General Assembly resolution 
38159 A, and the report of the Secretary-General, 6/ as well aa of 
prograxmn8 10 on the law of the sea and ocean affairs in the rn8dium-term plan 
for the period 1992-1997, 11 

m of the report of the Secretary-General prepared in 
pursuance of paragraph 20 of General Aaaembly reaolution 45/145, p/ 

1. Becalla the historic Significance of the Unite' Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea aa an important contribution to tht maintenance of 
peace, justice and progress for all peoples of the world; 

. 
2. WsittaaattsfactiM at the increasing and overwhelming 

support for the Convention, as evidenced, w, by the one hundred and 
fifty-nine signatures and fifty-one of the sixty ratificationa or accessions 
required for entry into force of the Convention; 

3. &ky&9~ all States to make renewed efforts to facilitate univoraal 
participation in the Convention; 

4. Wot;ea the initiative of the Secretary-General to 
promote dialogue aimed at addressin issues of concern to some States in order 
to achieve universal participation in the Convention: 81 

w A/38/570 and Corr,l and Add.1 an4 Add.lKorr.1. 

$1 A/46/724. 

81 See A/46/724, patae. 15-20, 

/ . . . 



A1461L.44 
English 
Page 4 

. 
5. Pacoanllell that political end econcric chanqea, including 

particularly a growing rolirnce on market principles, underscore the need to 
reevaluate, in light of the iaauea of Concern to aome States, 91 matters in 
the regime to be apylied to the Area and it8 resource8 end thet a productive 
dialogue on such iaauea involving all interested partiea would facilitate the 
prospect of univeraal participation in the Convention, for the benefit for 
madcind aa a wholet 

6. ~_UPPP all State8 that have not done 80 to conaider ratifying or 
acceding to the Convention at the earliest possible date to allow the 
effective entry into force of the neu legal regime for the uaea of the aea end 
its resources end calla upon all States to take appropriate steps to promote 
universal participation in the Convention, including through dialogue aimed at 
addreasing the iaauea of concern to some States; 

7. w all States to aafeguard the unified character of the 
Convention end related resolutions adopted therewith end to apply them in a 
menner conaiatent with that character and with their object and r xpoae; 

8. w States to observe the proviaiona of the Convention 
when enacting their national legislation; 

9. #otes the progress being made by the Preparatory Coaaaiaaion for the 
International Sea-Bed Authority end for the International Tribunal for the Law 
of the Sea in all area8 of its work: 

10. flecalls the Understanding on the Fulfilment of Obligationa by the 
firat four Registered Pioneer Inveatora and their Certifying States adopted by 
the Preparatory Coaraiaaion on 30 August 1.990; LQ/ 

11. Takep that negotiations on the fulfilment of the obligations 
have already been completed in respect of the pioneer investor regfatered in 
March 1991~ ll/ 

12. wea its s to the Secretary-General for his efforts 
in support of the Convention and for the efftactive execution of the major 
progrtumne on marine affairs set forth in chapter 25 of the medium-term plan 
for the period 1984-1989 and extended for the period 1990-1991, end requests 
him, in the execution of prograaaae 10 on the law of the sea in the medium-term 
plan for the period 1992-1997, to provide an effective response to the 
increased needs of States for assistance in the implementation of the 
Conventionr 

P/ 633 A/46/724, para. 17. 

IQ/ LOS/PCN/L.87, annex. 

&I./ See LQS/PCN/L.Y7, qara. 32, 

/ . . . 



A/46/L.44 

English 

Page 5 

13. w it8 m to the Secretary-General for the 
report prepared in pursuance of paragraph 20 of General Assembly resolution 
451145 fi/ and request8 him to carry out the activitier outlined therein, na 
well as those aimed at the strengthening of the legal regime of the sea, 
special emphasis being placed on the work of the Preparatory Cormnissioo, 
including the implementation of resolution II of the Third United Nation8 
Conference on the Law of the Sea: 

14. J&&!&e& regional effort8 being undertaken by developing countries 
to integrate the ocean sector in national development plans and programmes 
through the process of international cooperation and assistance, in particular 
the initiative8 mentioned in the report of the Secretary-General; JJ/ 

15. w the Secretary-General to continue to assist States in the 
implementation of the Convention and in the devels,pment of a con8i8tent and 
uniform approach to the legal regime thereunder, as well a8 in their national, 
subregional and regional efforts toward8 the full realization of the benefits 
therefrom, end invite8 the organs and organizations of ths United Nations 
8y8tem to cooperate and lend assistance in these endeavours; 

16. w interested Member States, in particular State8 with advanced 
marino capabilities, to review relevant policies and progrMm88 in the COnteXt 
of the integration of the maria8 sector in national development strategies, 
and to ezplore prospects for intensifying cooperation with developing StatOsr 
including Stoter of regions active in this field; 

17. m the competent international organlzations, the United 
Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and other multilateral funding 
agencie8. in accordance with their respective policies, to intensffy 
financial, technological, orgaaizational and managerial assistance to the 
developing countries in their efforts to realize the benefits of the 
comprehensive legal regime e8tablished by the Convention and to strengthen 
cooperation among themselves an8 with donor State8 in the provfsfcn of such 
assfstancef 

18. w the second report oi the Secretary-General submitted 
pUrBUant to paragraph 13 of General Assembly re8olutfon 44/26 and parapjraph 15 
of General Assembly resolution 49145 identifying the moB8ere8 currently taken 
by State8 and by the competent international organizatirJxt3 as w;>!.L a5 future 
approaches to address the needs of States in regard try tha deval,-jpment ant7 
msnagem8nt Of OCBan resources, >a/ and requests (:ho Gearethry-Goneral to ko+JP 
under review, in cooperathn with States and the competent interna?.ional 
organioatioo8, the measures being undertaken and nny necessary fcllou.,up 
act&on, in order to facilitate the realizatiun by Stntsn of the bonrtfi'r.8 elf 

JJ/ See A/46/7%4, paras. 190 .lQfj. 

2-a/ A/46/722. 

/  
.  .  1 



N46ak.44 

bgliuh 

Page 6 

the comprehensive leyal regime established by the Convention and to report 
thereon periodically to the Goneral Assembly; 

19. m the decirion of the Proparatory Coaauismion to hold its 
tenth regular eesaion at Singston from 24 February to 13 March 1992 and to 
hold a euneaer meeting in New York in 1992; 

PO. m that the protection of the marine environment will be 
significantly enhanced by the implementation of appliceble provieione of the 
Convention; 

21. wtes its w to Staten, and other members of the 
international community to strengthen their cooperation and to take measures 
with a view to giving full effect to the provision8 in the Convention on the 
conservation and management of marine living resources, including the 
prevention of fishing methods and practices which can have an adverse impact 
on the conservation and management af marine living reeources end, in 
particular, to comply with bilateral and regional -asurea applicable to them 
aimed at effective monitoring and enforcement: 

22. Beavlests the Secretary-General to submit a special report to the 
General Acaembly at its forty-seventh session on the progress made in the 
implementation of the comprehensive legal regime embodied in the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, in the light of the tenth 
annivereary in 1992 of its adoption" and to take such action. in consultation 
with Statea, as may be appropriate to mark the occasion; 

23. m the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session on developments pertaining to the Convention and all 
related activities and on the impl8mentatiOn of the present resolution; 

24. u to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the Item entitled "Lw of the Sea". 


