







































UNITED - 
NATIONS 

24 August 1992 

‘4 , 
:-‘I* . ,( 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 
-1 L. /. o ,I_ 'I,.,' 2 I v., . 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 150 

THE SITUATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 

Afqhanistan, Albania. Alqeria, Azerbaijan, Bansladesh, 
Bosnia and Herzeuovina, Comoros, Diibouti, Eqvot, Guinea, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Reoublic of), Jordan, Kuwait. 
Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia. Mauritania. Morocco, Oman, 
Pakistan, Saudi ,Arabia, Seneqal. Slovenia, Sudan, Tunisia, 

Turkev and United Arab Emirates: draft resolution 

The General Assembly, 

Havinq considered the item entitled "The situation in BQSnia and 
Herzegovina", 

Reaffirminq the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and guided by the need to implement them, 

Aware of its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for -- 
international legitimacy, 

ansiderinq that the United Nations, pursuant to the provisions of its 
Charter, has a major role to play in, and responsibility for, the maintenance 
of international peace and security, 

Recallinq the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and the Commission 
on Human Rights, as well as decision 1992/305 of the Economic and Social 
Council, 

Notinq that a large number of States have reserved their position 
regarding the succession of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia by 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), 

92-39580 43572 (E) 240892 
240892 / . . . 



A/46&.76 
English 
Page 2 

Deolorinq the grave situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the serious 
deterioration of the living condition of the people there, especially the 
Moslem and Croat population, arising from the aggression against the territory 
of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which constitutes a threat to 
international peace and security, 

Alarmed by the prospect of further escalation of the fighting in the 
region, 

Expressins arave alarm at continuing reports of widespread violations of 
international humanitarian law occurring within the territory of the former 
Yugoslavia and especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including reports of mass 
forcible expulsion and deportation of civilians, imprisonment and abuse of 
civilians in detention centres and deliberate attacks on non-combatants, 
hospitals and ambulances, impeding the delivery of food and medical supplies 
to the, civilian population, as well as wanton devastation and destruction of 
property, 

Stronalv condemning the abhorrent practice of "ethnic cleansing", which 
constitutes a grave and serious violation of international humanitarian Law, 

Recalling the report of the Secretary-General of 12 May 1992, &/ in which 
he states that "all international observers agree that what is happening is a 
concerted effort by the Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the acguiescence 
of, and at least some support from the Yugoslav People's Army, to create 
'ethnically pure' regions in the context of negotiations on the 
'cantonization' of the Republic in the Conference of the European Community on 
Bosnia and Herzegovina", 

Exuressina arave concern that, despite the rel.evant Security Council 
resolutions, no effective measure has been implemented to stop the abhorrent 
practice of "ethnic cleansing", or to reverse and discourage the policies and 
proposals that might encourage it, 

Apualled at the continuing reports of widespread, massive and grave 
violations of human rights perpetrated within the territory of the former 
Yugoslavia and especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including reports of 
summary and arbitrary executions, forced disappearances, torture, rape and 
other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, 
detention, 

as well as arbitrary arrest and 

Exoressina grave concern that, despite repeated demands by the Security 
Council, the cease-fire agreed upon by all parties has not been respected, 

Concerned that other demands in relevant Security Council resolutions, 
especially resolutions 752 (1992) of 15 May 1992, 757 (1992) of 30 
764 (1992) of 13 July 1992 and 770 (1992) and 771 

May 1992, 
(1992) of 13 August 1992, 

have not been complied with, 

A/ S/23900, para. 5. 

/ . . . 



A/46/L.76 
English 
Page 3 

Reaffirming the necessity of respecting the sovereignty, territorial 
integrity, political independence and national unity of the Republic of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, and rejecting any attempt to change the boundaries of that 
Republic, 

Reaffirmina also the inherent right of the Republic of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina to individual and collective self-defence in accordance with 
Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

Underlining the imperative need for an urgent peaceful solution to the 
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in conformity with the Charter of the 
United Nations and the principles of international law, and in particular the 
principles of respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, 
non-recognition of the fruits of aggression and non-recognition of acquisition 
of territory by force= and welcoming in this context the International 
Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, scheduled to be convened in London on 
26 August 1992, 

Commending the efforts of the Secretary-General, the Security Council, 
United Nations agencies, including the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees and other international and relief organizations, 
including the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the European Community, 
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the International 
Committee of the Red Cross, 

Commendina also the United Nations Protection Force for its continuing 
action in support of the relief operation in Sarajevo and other parts of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, 

Deenlv concerned about the safety of the personnel of the United Nations 
Protection Force and expressing sympathy for the losses suffered by them, 

1. Demands that all parties to the conflict immediately stop fighting 
and find a peaceful solution in line with the Charter of the United Nations 
and the principles of international law, and in particular the principles of 
respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, non-recognition 
of the fruits of aggression and non-recognition of acquisition of territory by 
force; 

2. wands alsQ that all forms of interference from outside the 
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina cease immediately; 

3. Demands further that those units of the Yugoslav People's Army and 
elements of the Croatian Army now in Bosnia and Herzegovina must either be 
withdrawn, or be subject to the authority of the Government of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, or be disbanded and disarmed with their weapons placed under 
effective international monitoring, and requests the Secretary-General to 
consider without delay what kind of international assistance could be provided 
in this connection; 

/ . . . 



A/46/C.76 
English 
Page 4 

4. Reaffirms its support for the Government and people of the Republic 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina in their just struggle to safeguard their 
sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity; 

5. m the Security Council to consider, on an urgent basis, taking 
further appropriate measures, as provided in Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations, to put an end to the fighting and to restore the unity and the 
territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 

6. Condemns the violation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and 
political independence of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as 
the massive violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, in 
particular the abhorrent practice of "ethnic cleansing", and demands that this 
practice be immediately brought to an end and that further steps be taken, on 
an urgent basis, to stop the massive and forcible displacement of population 
from and within the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as all other 
forms of8violation of human rights in the former Yugoslavia; 

7. Affirms that States are to be held accountable for violations of 
human rights which their agents commit upon the territory of another State; 

8. Calls uD0n all States and international organizations not to 
recognize the consequences of the acquisition of territory by force and of the 
abhorrent practice of "ethnic cleansing"; 

9. Demanda that the International Committee of the Red Cross be granted 
immediate, unimpeded and continued access to all camps, prisons and other 
places of detention within the territory of the former Yugoslavia and that all 
parties ensure complete safety and freedom of movement for the International 
Committee and otherwise facilitate such access; 

10. Demands also the safe, unconditional and honourable repatriation of 
the refugees and deportees to their homes in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 
recognizes their right to receive reparation for their losses; 

11. Calls upon organs of the United Nations and all international relief 
agencies to facilitate the return of the displaced people to their homes in 
the Republic of Bosnia and Merzegovina, as well as their rehabilitation: 

12, commends the untiring efforts and the bravery of the United Nations 
Protection Force in securing the relief operation in the Republic of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, as well as the efforts of the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees and other relief agencies; 

13. Urge:! all parties and others concerned to take the necessary 
measures to secure the safety of the United Nations Protection Force and all 
other United Nations personnel; 

14. JJraes all States to support the ongoing efforts to be taken in 
accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions to facilitate the 

/ . * * 



AI46IL.76 
English 
Page 5 

delivery of humanitarian assistance to all parts of the Republic of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; 

15. Reuuests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution: 

16. Decides to remain seized of the matter and to continue its 
consideration of this item at its forty-seventh session. 

-...--- 

, 

I 


