







































UNITED 
NATIONS 

General Assembly Distr. 
LIMITED 

M461L.20 
2 December 19Y3. 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 19 

IMPLEXWTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRAKTING OF 
INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES 

. 
Alauia. sConuol Cubalor, ia. Ghaga , 

Iran (Ismic &RR&& of). Mada- I 
Guinea, SlvFfenatab, Tunisia. 

V~tu. V&_rrmn. YUgOSl&A. 
: draft resolution 

. 
ion of informati~&3solonizatxon 

v the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard tb the Implemcntatiol. of the Declaration on the Grarxting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the 
dissemination of information on decoloaization and publicity for the work of 
the United Nations in the field of decolonization, &/ 

Re,allfncr its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the n 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 
and other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations concerning the 
dissemination of information on decolonization, in particular General Assembly 
resolution 45/35 of 20 Novomber 1990, 

M-Eating the importance of publicity as an instrument for furthering 
the aims of the Daclaration and mindful of the role of world public opinion in 
assisting effectively the peoples of the colonial Territories in achieving 
self-determination and independence, 

21 A/46/23 (Part II), chap. II. 

91-46776 39762 (E) / . . . 



A/46/L.2B 

English 
Paqe 2 

&&g that while CeAaOrahip laws have been repealed, existing 
legislation and other measures still curtail the freedom of the press in 
South Africa, 

a of the importance of non-governmental organizations in the 
disremination of information on deColOnizatiOA, 

1. &pm the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting 
of IAdepeAdeACe to Colonial Countries 8nd Peoples relatiaq to the 
dissemination of information and publicity for the work of the United Nations 
in the field of deCOlOAizatiOA# A/ 

2. Conaiders it important for the United Nations to continue to play an 
active role in the process of decolonizatfon aAd to intensify its effort8 to 
ensure the widest possible dissemination of information on decolonization, 
with a view to further mobilizing international public opinion in support of 
complete decolonization by the year 2000; 

3. &g!,~&& the Secretary-General, taking into account the suggestions 
of the Special Committee, to continue to take concrete measures through all 
the media at his disposal, including publications, radio and television, to 
give widespread and continuous publicity to the work of the UAiteU NatfOAS in 
the field of decolonization and, i&2-: 

(a) To continue, in consultation with the Special Committee, to collect, 
prepare and disseminate basic material, studies and articles relating to the 
problems of dtacolonizatioo, and, in particular, to continue to publish the 
periodical PBjaEtivet Justice and other publications, special articles and 
studies, iAClUdiAg the F series, and to increase the information 
on all the Territories under consideration by the Special Committee, selecting 
appropriate material for wider dissemination by reprints in various languages; 

(b) To seek the full cooperation of the administering Powers in the 
discharge of the tasks referred to above; 

(c) To intensify the decoloaization-oriented activitic?a of all United 
Natioas information centres; 

(d) To maintain a working relationship with the Organizatfon of African 
Unity and appropriate regional and intergovernmental organizatfona, 
particularly in the Pacific and Caribbean regions, by holding periodic 
consultations and exchanging information; 

(e) To solicit, in consultation with United Nations information centres, 
assistance in the dissemination of information on decolonization from 
non-governmental organizations; 

(f) To continue to produce comprehensive press releases for all meetings 
of the Special Committee and its subsidiar;, bodies; 

/ . . . 



A/46/L. 28 
English 
Page 3 

(g) To enaure that tke necessary facilities and services to that end are 
made available; 

(h) To report to the Special Committee on measures taken in the 
implementation of the present resolution: 

4. w all States, in particular the administering Powers, as well 
as the specialised agencies and other organisations of the United Nations 
system and non-governmental organisations 4th a epecinl interttst in 
decolonisation, to undertake or intensify, in cooperation vith the 
Secretary-General and vithin their respective spheres of competence, the 
large-scale dissemination of information referred to in paragraph 2 abovet 

5. w the Special Committee to follow the implemrntation of the 
present resolution and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its 
forty-seventh session. 

- .w-- -  


