







































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
QENERAL

A/46/710
4 December 1991

ORIGINAL! ENGLISH

Forty-sixth eeeaioa
Agenda item 92

ELIMINATION OF RACISM AND RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

mnorteyl:: We, Rosemary SEMAFUMU (Uganda)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-sixth session the item entitled "Elimination of racism and
racial discrimination" and to allocate it. to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item jointly with item 93 at its 3rd to
12th, 20th, 40th and 49th meetings, from 7 to 11 and on 14, 15 and 23 October
and 13 and 25 November 1991. An account of the Committee's discussions is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/46/SR.3-12, 20, 40 and 49).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documentation:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council, chapter IV, section A
(R/46/3 and Add.l)t A/

(b) Report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
(A/46/16)1 ai

11 To be issued as 9ffice1 For -sixth
Session,- (A/46/3/Rev. 1).

21 To be issued as Gfficial Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-sixth Session, Sunalement No. 19 (A/46/18).

91-47221 071lP (E) / . . *



A/46/710
Englieh
Page 2

(a) Report of the Secretary-Cbneral  on the status of the  In ternat iona l
Convention on the e>ppression  and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid
(A/46/391) J

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of t h e
Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (A/46/447)2

(e) Note by the Secretary-General  on the report  of the Secretary-General
on the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Second Decade to
Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination contained in document E/1991/39
(A/46/465) J

(f) Note verbale datecl 6 May 1991 from the Permanent Representative o f
Albania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/46/166-E/l991/71)t

(9) Note verbale dated 21 May 1991 from the Permanent Mission o f
Yugoelavia  to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/46/164-E/1691/81)~

(h) Letter dated 5 August 1991 from the Permanent Representative o f
Vanuatu to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (AJ461344)~

(i) Letter dated 23 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative o f
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/46/493),

(j) Letter dated 27 September 1991 from the Permanent Repreeentative of
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral
(A/46/501/Rev.  1) J

(k) Note by the Coordinator of United Nations Activities under the
Second Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination (A/C.3/46/2),

4 . At the 3rd meeting, on 7 October, the Director of the Implementation o f
International Instruments and Procedures Branch of the Centre for Human Rights
made an introductory statement on the item (see A/C,3/46/SR.3).

5 . At the 8th meeting, on 11 October, the Under-Secretary-General for Human
Rights made a statement (see A/C.3/46/SR.6).

XI. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A .  U&ft resow A/C!.3/46/Lg.

6 . At the 20th meeting, on 23 October 1991, the representative of
Yugoslavia, on behalf o f Colombia,

, slovaia. De-k. EC&r, v pw
Fterrce,-, t h e  B. ~iciarenua,

/ . . .



A/46/110
Enqlish
Page 3

Pa Po&~ds,, t h e  -of&Lb!.
as. VW. Vv end m introduced a draft

resolution (A/C,3/46/L.@),  entitled @Report of the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Diacriminatioa”. Subasquently, Csnsda.Ohene and WY
a joined in eponeoring  the draft r e s o l u t i o n .

7, At its 40th meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 16, draft resolution I).

0.

8, At the 20th meeting, on 23 October 1991, the representative of Zambia, on
behalf of mCubslEthioaia,  X.ran (IslamicReaublic  o f )  a U
R&D.&,&, the &&ED,  the w of Tanaaaie.,  Zambia a n d
Zimbabwe,  introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.l1) entitled “Sta tus  o f
the Intsrnational  Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of
Apar  the id". Subsequently,  v. Ireg, the wArab~U.E&&

Uaa and w  joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

9. At the 40th meeting, on 13 November, the representative of the
Netherlands (on behalf of the Statea Members of the United Nations that are
members of the European Community) made a statement in explanation of vote
before the vote.

10. At the asme  meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by a
recorded vote of 96 to 1, with 36 abstentions (see pare. 16, draft
resolution II). The voting was aa follows: 91

Lnfavourt Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarua, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail,
Brunei Darusealam, Central African Republic, Chad, Chi+e,
China, Colombia, Coata Rica, C&e d*Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Qabon,  Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jsmahiriya,  Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Msa~ico,  Morocco, Moaambique,  Myanmar!  Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, St. Kitts and

91 The representatives of Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Rwanda, Senegal,
Sierra Leone and Vanuatu stated that had they been present, they would have
voted in favour of the draft resolut ion. The repretientativs  of Niger sa id
that due to mechanical malLunction,  her affirmative vote had not been recorded.

/ . . .



A/46/718
English
Page 4

Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan,  Suriname,
Swamiland,  ‘Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,  Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates.
United Republic of Tanaania,  Uruguay, Venesuelar  Uiet Name
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Acrainett United States of America.

mu: Albania,  Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Csechoslovakia,  Denmark, Finland, Franc& GermanYl
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

11. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements in explanation of
vote were made by the representatives of Braail, the United States of America,
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Australia and New Zealand.

C. QK_@ft re so lu t ion  A/C.3/46&&

12. At the 20th meeting, on 23 October, the representative of Ethiopia, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of African States, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.9) entitled
*‘Second  Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination”.

13. At the 49th meeting, on 25 November, the Committee had before it a
revised draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.9/Rev.l)  submitted by Gabon on behalf o f
the same sponsors. Operative paragraph 16 of draft resolution A/C.3/49/L.9
which read:

“18. w Governments to encourage positive change in South
Africa based on the guidelines set out in the Declaration on Apartheid
and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, in particular by
maintaining existing measures against South Africa until there is clear
evidence of profound and irreversible change;‘*

was revised in draft resolution A1C.31461L.91Rev.l  to read:

“18. mlls uoqg  Governments to encourage further positive change in
South Africa based on the guidelines set out in the Declaration on
Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, i n
particular by maintaining effective and sustained international pressure
against South Af ricar  ’

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution
without a vote (see psra. i6, draft  resolution III).

/ . . .



A/46/710
English
Page 5

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution , statementa were made by the
representatives of the Netherlands (on behalf of the States Members of the
United Nations that are members of the European Community) and Iceland (on
behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden). The representatives
of the United States of America and Israel stated that they did not

‘participate in the adoption of the revised draft resolution.

III . RECOMMENDATIONS

16. The Third Committee recommends to
the fol lowing draft  resolutions:

OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

the General Assembly the adoptioa o f

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Beoort of the CpmmCttee  on thewtion of Racial
-ti

m its previous resolutions concerning the reports of the
Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and its resolutions on
the status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Racial  Discrimination,  A/ as well as its other relevant resolutions on t h e
implementation of the Programme of Action for the Second Decade to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination, si/

&iteratb the importance of the International Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, which is one of the most
widely accepted human rights instruments adopted under the auspices of the
United Nations,

Bwar_e of the importance of the contributions of the Committee to the
efforts of tha United Nations to combat racism and all other forms of
discrimination based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin,

uiteratina  once a- the need to intensify the struggle for the
elimination of racism and racial discrim1aation  throughout the world,
especially the elimination of the system of apartheid in South Africa,

wzinq the obligation of all States parties to the COnVentiOn  to
take legislative, judicial and other measures in order to secure full
implementation of the provisions of the Convention,

%I Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

W Reso lu t ion  36114,  a.nnex.

/ . . .



A/46/710
English
Page 6

Becsllina the urgent appeals made by the Secretary-Qeneral,  the general
Assembly, the meetings of States parties to the Convention and the Committee
itself to the States parties to honour  their f inancial  obl igations under the
Convention,

9 for the efforts of the members of the
Committee to explore ways and means to overcome the Cormnittee’s current
f inancial  crieie,

W&g co- the report of the Secretary-General on the financial
situation of the Committee, 6/

1. orof- at the fact that a number of S t a t e s
parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms o f
Racial  Discrimination have st i l l  not fulfilled their financial obligationsr

2. its CO- that such a situation may lead to a
further delay in the discharge of the substantive obligations of the Committee
under the Conventions

3. Commeaas  the Committee for its work with regard to the
implementation of the Convention and the Programme of Action fur the Second
Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination;

4, Zakesnote of the report of the Committee on the
work of its thirty-ninth and fortieth sessions; 21

5. w States parties to fulfil their obligations under
article 9, paragraph 1, of the Convention, to submit  in due time their
periodic reports on meaaures taken to implement the Couvention and to pay
their outstanding contributions a n d , if possible, their contributions for 1992
before 1 February 1992, so as to enable the Committee to meet regularly)

6. Stl’OgQ1Y to all States parties, especially those in arrears,
to fulfil their financial obligations under article 8, paragraph 6,  of  the
Convention;

7. Invitea  the Secretary-General to continue to explore the
possibilities of establishing a more secure basis for future financing of all
tSIe costs of the Committee, taking in the account the views and proposals o f
States parties, submitted in accordance with paragraph 7 of General Assembly
resolution 45188 of 14 December 1990r

w A/46/447.

iv A/46/10.

/ . . .



A/46/710
English
Page 7

8, m the States parties, as a matter of priority, to c o n s i d e r
all possibilities of establishing a more secure basis for the future f i n a n c i n g
of all the costs  of the Committees

9. Notee that the Secretary-general has proposed in his report that the
States parties at their next meeting should consider the question of t h e
establishment of a “contrngency  reserve fund”z 81

10. B~g~8&8 the Secretary-General to invite those States parties that
are in arrears to pay the amounts in arrears, and to report thereon to the
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session;

11. Q9&88 to consider at its forty-seventh session, under the item
entitled “Elimination of racism and racial discriminetioc”‘,  the report of the
Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee and the report
of the Committee.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

on on the SB
t of the_Crimeofw

n its resolutions 411103 of 4 December 1986, 42/56 of
30 November 1987, 43/97 of 8 December 1988, 44169  of 8 December 1989 and 45190
of 14 December 1990,

Minaful  that the International Convention on the Suppression and
Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid 21 constitutes an important international
treaty in the field of human rights and serves to implement the ideals of the
Universal Declaration of Buman  Rights, m/

B its conviction that apartheid is a crime against humanity ar;d
constitutes a total negation of the purposes and principles of the Charter o f
the United Nations and a gross violation of human rights, seriously
threatening international peace and security,

B/ A/46/447, para. 4.

PI Resolution 3068 (BXVIII),  annex.

bQ/ Resolution 217 A (III).

/ . . .



x/46/718
English
Page 6

llandemnlncr the abhorrent policy and system of apartheid and the
repmarion  it engendera , which continue to aggravate the situation in South
Africa,

w that the root cause of the conflict in southern Africa is
apartheid and the racist regime’s policy of destabilisation against the
front-line and other neighbouring States,

v at the continued collaboration of certain States and
transnational corporations with the racist regime of South Africa,
par t i cu lar ly  in the polit ical , economic,  military and other fields, as an
encouragement of its odious policy of apartheid,

Convinced  that universal ratification of or accession to the C o n v e n t i o n
and the immediate  implementation of its provisions will contribute to the
eradication of the crime of apartheid, -

1, Tskea nota of the report of the Secretary-General o n
the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment
Apartheidr JJ/

2. ccnu3~a&  those States parties to the Convention that
their reports under erticle VII thereof)

the status o f
of the Crime of

have submitted

3. w un~g  all Statea whose transnational corporations continue to
do business with South Africa to take appropriate steps to terminate their
dealings with South Africa)

4. Rearuests  the Commission on Human Rights to intensify, in cooperation
with the Special Conunittee against Apartheid, its efforts to compile and
update periodically the list of individuals,  organisat ions,  inst i tut ions and
representatives of States deemed responsible for crimes enumerated in
article II of the Convention, as well as those against whom or which lega l
proceedings have been undertakeal

5. Recruests  the Secretary-General to circulate that list among all
States parties to the Convention and all Member States and to bring such facts
to the attention of the public by all means of mass conrmunicationl

6. #&,.so  reau the Secretary-General to invite the States parties to
the Convention, the specialised  agencies and non-governmental organisations to
provide the Commission on Human Rights with relevant information concerning
the forms of the crime of apartheid, as described in article II of t h e
Convention, committed by transnational corporations operating in South Africa1

U/ A/46 /391 .

/ . . .



A/46/716
English
Page 9

7 . w to all States, United Nations organs, the special ised
agencies and international end national non-governmental organisations to step
up their activities to enhance public awareaess by denouncing the crimes
committed by the racist regime with a view to promoting further rat i f icat ion

of or accession to the Conventiont

8. U&&m the importance of the universal ratification of the
Convention,  which would be an effective noatribution to the fulfilment of t h e
ideals of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other human rights
instrumestst

9. we & to those States that have not yet done 80 to
ratify or to accede to the Convention without further delay)

10. RR~US&R the Sucretary-General to intensify his efforts ,  through
appropriate channels, to disseminate information on the Convention and its
implementation with a view to promoting further ratification of Or accession
to the Conventiont

11, use rem the Secretary-General to include in his next annual
report under General Assembly resolution 3380 (Xxx) of 10 November 1975 a
special section concerning the implementation of the Convention.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

at Ram Rac,&l Discrbb&bI

B its objective set forth in the Charter of the United Nations
to aChi8V8  international cooperation in Solving international problems of an
economic, Social,  cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and
encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without
dist inction as  to race, sex, l anguage  or  re l ig ion ,

Rgaffirmincr  also its firm determination and its commitment to eradicate
totally and unconditionally racism in all its forms, racial discrimination and
apartheid,

Recallinn the Un’versal  Declaration of Human Rights, u/ the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination, n/ th8 International Convention on the Suppression and
Punishment of th8 Crime of Apartheid, &&/ and the Convention against

JJ/ Resolution 217 A (III).

a/ Reso lu t ion  2106  A (XX) ,  a n n e x .

u/ Resolution 3068 (XXVIII), annex.

/ . . .



A/46/110
English
Page 10

Dinorimination  in Eduoation  adopted by the United Nations Eduaational,
soientifia  and Cultural Organioation  on 14 Deoember 1960, u/

s its resolution 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973, on the
first Decade for Aatioa to Combat Raaiem and Raaial Discrimination, and ita
resolution 38114  of 22 November 1983, on the Seaond  Deaade to Combat Racism
and Raoial  Dieariminstion,

-further the two World Conference8
Di~orimination,  held at Geneva In 1978 and 1983,

to Combat Raaiam and Racial

BearincrU t h e  hp.Qrt  of m See  to w
DiaariminaCian, W

pm that the Second World Confermae  represented a positive
contribution by the international  oommunity towards attaining the objectives
of the Decade, through its adoption of a Dealaration XL/ and an operational
Programme of Action U/ for the Seoond Deaade to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination,

wth qrave c~g~a~g  that, desp i te  the effort8 of the  in ternat iona l
community, the prinaipal  objectives OF the two Deaades for A&ion to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination hava not been attained and that millions o f
human beings continue to this day to be the victims of varied forma of racism,
racial discrimination and apartheid,

w in particular its resolution 45/1C5  of 14 December 1990,

w the necessity of attaining the objectives of the
Second Decade to Combat Racism and Raaial Discrimination,

v the note by the Seoretary-Qeneral  and “lis report
submitted within the framework of the implementation of the Programme of
Action for the Second Decade,

w m of the need to take more effective and sustained
international  mealurea  for the elimination of all forms of racism and racial
discrimination and the total eradication of apartheid in South Africa,

u/ United Nations Educational, Scientifia and Cultural Organisation,
da oL theral eonfetence,_Ele_uenthv,  p .  1 1 9 .

u/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.63.XIV.4 and corrigendum.

~1 I b i d . ,  c h a p .  11.



A/46/716
English
Page 11

ERgx&&g that aertain aativitieu of the Second Deaade  eaheduled for the
period 1985-1989  have not been implemented owing to a laak of Sinsnoial
re80urceb.

RuQ&R&I the importanae of strengthening, where necessary, national
‘legislation and institutions for the promotion OS raoial  harmony,

Aware of the importance and the magnitude of the phenomenon of migrant
workere, ae well as the efforts  undertaken by the international o%nmunity to
improve the protection of the human rights of migrant workers and their
families,

m the adoption by the general Asdembly during its for ty - f i f th
seasion of the International Convention on the Proteation  of the Rights of All
Migrant Workers  and Members of Their Families, U/

ReaffiFmincr the Dealaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consegueaces
in louthorn Afriaa, U/ unanimously adopted by the Qeneral Assembly at its
sixteenth special session , on 14 Deaember 1989, which offers  guidelines on how
to end apartheid,

1. Declares that all forme of raaism and racial
disorimination, partiaularly in their  inst i tut ionalised form,  suoh aa
apartheid, or resulting from official doctrines of raaial superiority o r
enalusivity, are among the moat serious violations of human righta in the
contemporary world and must be combated by all available mean81

2. Deaidea  that the international  community, in general, and the United
Nations, in partioular, should continue to give the highest priority t o
programmes for oombating racism, rac ia l  disarimination  and apartheir’  and
intensify their e f f o r t s , during the latter part of the Seaond Deaade  to Combat
Raoism and Racial Discrimination, to provide asisistanae  and relief to the
victims of raaism and a11 forms OS racial dieorimination  and apartheid,
espeoially  in South Africcr and in oooupied territoriaa and territories u n d e r
alien domiaationt

3, m to all Governments and to international and non-governmental
organisations to inoreaae  aud intensify their activities to combat r a c i s m ,
racinl discrimination and apartheid and to provide relief and assistance to
the victims of these evilst

4. Tskee of the report of the Secretary-general containfng
information on the activities of Governments, specialised agencies, regional
intergovernmental orQaniZIati0X.M  and non-governmental organisations, a8 well as

u/ R e s o l u t i o n  451158,  annex,

u/ Resolution 6-161’1,  annex.

/ . . .



A/46/718
English
Pago 13

United Nationa organa, to give ef feet to the programme of Action for the
Second Deoade  to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination)

5. Natea the efforts made to coordinate all the programmes
ourrently  under implementation by the United Nations system that relate to the
objeatives of the Seaoad Decade, and encourages the Coordinator for the Seoond
Decade to Combat Raciem  and Racial Discrimination to continue his efforts8

6. Welcomea the publication of the global compilation of nat iona l
legislation against racism. and racial discrimination 2p/ aac¶  requests  the
Secretary-general  to transmit  i t  to Oovernmeats  a8 Boon a8 pO8SibleJ

7. Recrueets the Secretary-General to continue the study on the effects
of racial discrimination on the children of minoritiee,  in particular those o f
migrant workera, in the field of education, training and employment, and to
subpit, malia, epecifia reaommendations  for the implementation of
modeures  to combat the effeots of that discriminations

6. w the progress made in preparing model legislation for the
guidanae of Oovernments  in the enactment of further legislation against racial
discrimination, and requests the Secretary-General to finalise the teat of the
model legislation and the handbook of recourse procedures for victims of
racial discrimination and to publish and distribute those texts as soon as
pOSSible  J

9. mws its ina to the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organisation to expedite the preparation of teaching materials
and teaching aids to promote teaching, training and education activities on
human rights and against racism and racial discrimination, with particular
emphasis  on activities at the primary and secondary levels of eduCatiOtIJ

10. m the Secretary-general to publish the study of the  Spec ia l
Rapporteur and of the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities on the results achieved and obstacles encountered
during the first Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
and the first half of the Second Decade, Z.&/ and distribute it on as wide a
scale as po8SibleJ

11. Consiaers  that all the parts of the Programme of Action for the
Second Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination should receive equal
attention in order to attain the objectives of the Second Decedet

12. n that part of the programme for the period 1983-1989 has not
yet been implemented because of lack of adequate resources, as indicated in

a/ HR/PUB/1990/8.

a/ A/45/525, annex.

/ . . .



A/46/710
English
Page 13

the report of the Secretary-General to the Economic and Social Council at its
first regular session of 19911 221

13. Wqy~&6 the Secretary-General to implement immediately those
activities scheduled for the period 1985-1989 not yet carried out and to
proceed with the implementation of the activities of the biennium 1990-19911

14. Affirmsonce  au the need for the implementation of the plan of
activities proposed for the period 1990-1993 contained in the annex to General
Assembly resolution 42/47t

15. m the Secretary-General, pursuant to General Assembly
resolutions 42147, 44/52 and 45/105, to ensure that the necessary and
additional resources are included in the programme budget for the biennium
1992-1993 to provide for the implementation of the activities of the Second
Decade t

16. E&I reauw the Secretary-General to inform the General Assembly
of the steps takon in regard to the provisions of paragraph 15 above)

17. mr reuuesta the Secretary-General to continue to accord the
highest  priority, in executing the plan of activities, to measures f o r
combating apartheid1

18. Qlls \a~era Governments to encourage further positive change in South
Africa based on the guidelines set out in the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, J,W in particular by maintaining
effective and sustained international pressure against South Afr ica;

19. m the Secretary-General to continue to accord special
attention to the situation of migrant workers and their families and to
include regularly in his reports all information on such workers) I

20. fnviteg all Governments, United Nations bodies, the specialised
agencies and other intergovernmental organisations, as well as interested
non-governmental organisations  in consultative status with the Economic and
Social Council, to participate fully in the activities scheduled for the
period 1990-1993 and not yet carried out, by intensifying and broadening their
efforts to bring about the speedy elimination of apartheid and all forms o f
racism and racial discrimination2

idera that voluntary contributions to the Trust Fund for the
the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination

are indispensable for the implementation of the above-mentioned programmeat

22. PJotes with  rear&c that the present situation of the Trust Fund is
not encouraging;

2.3 E/1991/39.

/ .I.



A/46/710
Englirh
Page 14

23, Itragcrlv,.therefore,  to all aovernmente,  o r g a n i s a t i o n s  a n d
individuals  in a porition  to do ao to ooatribute  generously to the Truet Fund,
and to this end requests the Searetary-general to continue to under take
appropriate contaats  and initiatives to encourage contributionsr

24, Takes nou of the report of the Secre tary-Genera l  on the ac t iv i t ie s
of tie Second Dooade and reiteratea  its request to him and to the Economic a n d
Soaial  Counoil,  throughout the Deoade, to submit annually to the Qeneral
Assembly a report containing, iatert

(a) An enumeration of the activities undertaken or contemplated t o
aohieve the objeotivea  of t h e  Seaond  Deaade, inoluding the aotivities of
Qovernments,  United Nation8 bodies, the SpeCfialiZIed agencies and other
international and regional organisations, as well as non-governmental
organiaotions  J

(b) A rev iew and appraisal  of those activitieer

(a) Its  suggestions and recommendatioast

2s. Deoiaea  to keep the item entitled “Elimination of racism and racial
disarfmination”  on its agenda and to consider it as a matter  of the highest
priority at its forty-seventh session.


