






































UNITED
NATIONS
-----------_._.~-~----._~._-----

A
General Assembly Distr.

GENERAL

A/41;1704
2 December 1991

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-sixth session
Agenda item 94 (a)

SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT: QUESTIONS RELATING TO THE WORLD SOCIAL
SITUATION AND TO YOUTH, AGEING, DISABLED PERSONS AND THE

FAMILY

Report of the Third Committee (Part I)

Rapporteur: Ms. Rosemary SEMAFUMU (Uganda)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General ~ssembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its
agenda the item entitled "Social development: questions relating to the world
social situation and to youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family" and to
allocate it to the Third Committ~e.

2. The Committee considered the item at its 20th to 26th, 30th, 35th, 40th
and 45th meetings, on 23 to 29 October and 5, 8, 13 and 20 November 1991. An
account ef the Committee's discuRsion is contained in the relevant swnmary
records (A/~.3/45/SR.20-26, 30, 35, 40 and 45).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documentation:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council (A/46/~, chap. VI,
sect. B); J.I

(b) Interim report on the world social situation: report of the
Secretary-General (A/46/56-E/1991/6 and Corr.l);

11 To be issued as Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/46/3/Rev.l).

91-46829 0686P (E)

Beat Copy Avallab'.
I • ••



A/46/704
English
Page 2

(c) Work being done within the United Nations system on improving
quantitative and qualitative indicat.ors on social conditions and standards of
livingl report of:he Secretory-General (A/16/l37-E/1991/40);

(d) Implementation of the programme for International Literacy Yearl
~~port of the Secretary-General (A/46/281-E/1991/112);

(e) Policies and programmos involving youthl report of the
Secretary-General (A/46/360);

(f) International cooperation on ageing for 1992 and beyond I report or
the Secretary-General (A/46/361);

(g)
fami1yl

Progress made in the preparationA for the International Year of the
report of the Secretary-General (A/46/362 and Corr.1);

(h) Implementation of the World Programme of Action concerning Disabled
Persons and the United Nations Decade of Disabled Personsl report of the
Secretary-General (A/46/366);

(i) Implementation of Guiding Principles for Developmental Social
Welfare Policies and Programmes in the Near futurel report of the
Secretary-General (A/46/414);

{j) Note verbale dated 17 July 1991 from the Permament Representative of
Czechoslov6kia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/46/315);

(k) Letter dated 6 November 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
the Philippines addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.3/46/4).

4. At the 20th meeting, on 23 October, the Director of the Social
Deve10pmynt Oivision, Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs
of the United Nations Office at Vienna, and the representative of the
Department of International Economic and Social Affairs made introductory
statements (see A/C.3/46/SR.20).

5. At the same meeting the Special Pepresentative of the Secretary-Gener.al
for the Promotion of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons and the
representative of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization made statements (see A/C.3/46/SR.20).

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. ~~esolution A/C.3/46/L.4 an~dment
thereto contained in ~ument A/C.3/46/L.24

6. By its resolution 199117 of 30 May 1991, the Economic and Social Council
recommended to the GenerBl Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 3

(A/C.3/46/L.4) entitled I "Monitoring of international plans and programmes of
action in the field of social development".

7. At the 35th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Germany
introduced an amendment (A/C.3/46/L.24) to draft resolution A/C.3/46/L.4,
which road as followsl

"Monitoring of international plans and programmes of
action in the field of social development

"Insert the following additional operative paragraph after operative
paragraph 111

'12. £n4qrS~ the recommendations of the Secretary-General
contaihed in section 1I, paragraph 3, of his report entitled
"Implementation of the Guiding Principles for Developl'llental Social
Welfare Policies and Programmes in the Near Future" (A/46/414) and
emphasizes the need that the activities in this field be carried out
within existing resources.'

"and renwnber the following paragraph accordingly."

8. At the same meeting, the representative of Germany proposed that
operative paragragh 10 should be updated by replacing the phrase "to be held
in the Philippines in October 1991" with the phrase "held in the Philippines
from 7 to 11 October 1991".

9. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution, as
amended, without a vote (see para. 28, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolutioD A/C.3/46/L.S

10. By its resolution 1991/10 of 30 May 1991, the Economic and Social Council
recommended to the Ge~eral Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution
(A/C.3/46/L.5) entitled. "Implementation of the International Plan of Action
on Ageing and related activities".

11. At the 35th meeting, on 8 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution, without a vote (see pBra. 28, draft resolution 11).

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/t6/L.6

12. By its resolution 1991/14 of 30 May 1991, the Economic and Social Council
recommended to the Gen~ral Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution
entitled I "Preparation for and observance of the International Year Ilf the
Family".

/ ...



A/46n04
Englhh
Page 4

13. At the 35th meeting, on 8 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution, without a vote (see para. 28, draft resolution Ill).

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/46/L.la

14. At the 35th meeting, on 8 November, the represent.ative of Mongolia,
speaking on behalf of Auatralia, Baogladesh, Bel~rus, Burkioa raso, Cuba, the
pemocratic Peo~le's Republic of Korea, El Salvador. Guioea, Guatemala, 10dia,
~A, the ~,~ Peaple's Democratic 2epublic, MalAysia, MAli, Mongolia,
Moroccg, Mo,ambigue, H~anmar, Seoegal, Thailaod, Ukraine, the Unioo of Soviet
SociAlist RepUblics and Vietnam, introduced a draft resolution
(A/C.3/46/L.18), entitled "International Literacy Year". Subsequently
Costa RlcA ond Sri Lanka joined in sponsoring the draCt resolution.

15. At the 40th meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C,3/46/L.18 without a vote (see parQ. 28, draft resolution IV).

E. Draft r~ution A/C.3/46/L.19

16. At the 30th meeting, on 5 November, the representative of the Dominican
Republic, speaking on behalf of Austr1~, the Dgmin~n Republi~ and Malta,
introduce~ a draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.19), entitled "Implementation of the
International Plan of Action on Ageingl integration of the elderly in
development".

17. At the 35th meeting, on 8 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.3/46/L.19 without a vote (see para. 28, draft resolution V).

r. Draft resolution~C.3/46/L.20

18. At the 30th meeting, on 5 November, the representative of Ghana, speaking
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are also members of
the Group of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.20), entitled
"World social situation".

19. At the 45th meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Ghana,
speaking on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are also
members of the Group of 77, orally revised the draft resolution by
introducing, in parAgraph 5, the words "majority of" before the wOi.ds
"developing countries" and by deleting the words "long-term" before the words
"downward trend". The representative also replaced the words "item entitled",
in paragraph 15, by the words "issue of the world social situation under the
item" •

20. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/46/L.20, a8 orally revised, by 0 recorded vote of 140 to 1, with
5 abstentions (see para. 28, draft resolution VI). The voting was as follows I

/ ...



A/461104
English
Page 5

In favourl Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus.
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoroa, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Demoratic People's Republic of Korea,
Dennlark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Biasau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, I~eland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Latvia. Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Niger{a, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Uuinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugul, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore. Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, SWBziland,
Swaden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Toga, Trinid~d and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, Uaion of Soviet
Socialist RepUblics, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zai~e, Zambia and
Zimbabwe.

Againstl United States of America.

Abstainingl Belgium, Germany, Israel, Japan and United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

21. After the adoption of the orally revised draft resolution, the
representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Belgium, the United States of America and Japan made statements.

Draft resolutions A/C.3/4~/~.2l and L,2l/Rey.l

22. At the 35th meeting. on 8 November, the representative of the
Philippines. speaking on behalf of Australia, Austria, pangladesb, Be~
Came[oon, CQna~a, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark, the Dominican RepUblic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
l~eland, Indonesia, Italy, Morocco, Myanmar, Norway, Peru, the PhilAPpines,
~oland, Romania, Spain, Sweden, the Union Qf SQviet SQcialist Republics, the
Un-ited Kingdom_of GreQt Br~ain and NQrthern Ireland and IugQslavia,
intrQduced a draft resolution (A/C,3/46/L,Zl), entitled "Implementation of the
World Programma of Ar.tion concerning Disabled Persons and the United Nations
Decade of Disablp;A PersQns" which read as followSI

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 6

"Implementation oLthe~.lg Programme of Action
~xning pisable~ Per"2WLand the Uni~

Nations Decade or Dis8bleq Persons

"The General Assembly,

"Re.w.l.J.ng all its relevant resolutions, including resolut::on 37/52
of 3 December 1982, by which it adopted the World Programme of Action
concerning Disabled Persons, and resolution 37/53 of 3 December 1982, in
which, inter alia, It proclaimed the period 1983-1992 the United Nations
Decade of Disabled Persons as a long-term plan of action,

"kCJ~ll..intL.a.l.&.Q its resolution 43/98 of 8 December 1988, in which it
urged Member States and intergovernmantal and non-governmental
organizations concerned to translate into action at all levels, as
appropriate, the priorities for global activities and programmes during
the second half of the Decade, such as those set forth in the annex to
the resolution,

"Recalling further the request to the Secretary-General made in its
resolution 45/91 of 14 December 1990, to shift the focus of the United
Nations programme on disability from awareness-raising to action, with
the aim of achieving a society for all by the year 2010, and considering
that appropriate means will be required to achieve this,

"~.1..lug Economic and Social Council resolution 1991/9 of
30 May 1991, in which the Council invited Member States to review their
policies and programmes with the aim of designing national annual
priorities until the end of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons
in 1992 and concrete long-term strategies to ensure the full
implementation of the World Programme of Action concerning Disabled
Persons beyond the Decade,

"1'itLl~imJ the pl'ogress made by the ad hoc open-ended working group
established by the Commission for Social Development to elaborate
standard rules on the equalization of opportunities for persons with
disabili ties,

"tm-ting w.i.th....-c..O.nS:.fUD the deteriorating economic and social situation
of many developing countries, which adversely affect vulnerable groups,
including persons with disabilitias,

"Aware of the need for'new and concerted efforts, more vigorous and
broader action, and measures at all levels to fulfil the objectives of
the Decade,

"Expressing its appreciation for the efforts of a number of Member
States during the Decade to improve the conditions and well-being of
persons with disabilities and the willingness of those States to involve
persons with disabilities and their organization in all matters of
concern to them,

I •••



A/461704
English
PaCiJe 7

"Noting with appraciatigD the generous support to the Voluntary Fund
for the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons provided by some
Governments through voluntary contributions,

""Hare of the important role national cOf1lmittees are playing in
furthering the implementation of the World ProgrBmme of Action,

"Noting Hith awu:,Ilciatign the convening of the International Meeting
on Roles and Functions of National Coordinating Committees on Disability
in Developing Co\\ntries at Beijing from 5 to 11 November 1990, and the
adoption of the Guidelines Cor the Establishment and Development of
National Coordinating Comnittees on Disability,

"~Q!\ragad by the emergence of organizations of persons with
disabilities in all regions and their positive influence on the imaqe and
condition oC persons with disabilities,

"Noting the important contributions being made by other
non-governmental orCiJanizations in improving the status of persons with
disabilities,

"Racosmizlng the World Congress of Rehabilitation International, the
World Congress of Disabled Peoples' International, the World Congress
Blind Union, Independence '92, and other such important events to be held
in 1992 as important activities helping both to mark the end of the
Decade and to launch future efforts for the disRbled,

"Commanding the work being carried out by the United Nations
Statistical Of rice and welcoming its publication of the Disability
Statistics Cgmpandium, II

"Haying cgnsidend the report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the World Programme of Action concerning Disabled
Persons and the United Nations Deca~e of Disabled Persons, 11

"Dasirous of encouraging the continued and practical implementation
of the World Programme of Action beyond the Decade,

"1. Re..iterate.&. the need to achieve the objectives set out in the
agenda for action until the end of the United Nations Decade for Disabled
Persons and beyond, il and the preliminary outline of a long-term

II United Nations publication, Sales No. 90.XVII.17.

11 A/46/366.

il A/45/470, sect. Ill.

I •••



A/461704
English
Page 8

strategy to the year 2000 and beyondl a society for all, 5/ contained in
the report of the Secretary-General on the feasibility study on
alternative ways to mark the and of the Decade; ~I

"2. ,,'firm&! that, in implementin,., the agenda fo~' action, special
attention should be given to persons with disabilities in developing
countries;

"3. Inyites Member States, all organizations of the United i'fations
system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to review
and evaluate, with the active participation of persons with disabilities,
their currant disability-related policies, programmes and available
services with a view to identifying areas in Which major progress has
been achiev~d, as well as obstacles encountered in the prevention,
rehabilitation and equalization of opportunities;

"4. AU.o..J.n.'l.i..t.u all organizatio~s of the United Nations system to
incorporate the needs and concerns oi persons with disabilities in their
programmes and actlvities both as active agents 3nd beneficiaries;

"5. Streasea the noed, within existing resources, for priority to
be given to action-oriented programmes that will renew international
consensus on and elicit a oustained political commitment by Member States
to t.he implementation of the World Programme of Action beyond the Decade
and will ensure the continued improvement of the situation of persons
with disabilities;

"6. Endoraea the Beijing Guidelines for the Establishment and
Development of National Coordinating Con~ittees on Disability contained
in document A/C.3/46/4;

"7. ReQMISt.& the Secretary-General to ensure that the Beijing
Guidelines are disseminated as widely as possible and to assist Member
Stales in undertaking follow-up measures, especially training seminars,
to promote their implementation;

"8. A1.&..2-.re!l.WlI..t.& the Secretary-General to finalize during 1992 the
review of the translation into the official languages of the United
Nations of the terms 'impairment', 'disability', 'handicap' and 'disabled
person' used in the World Programme of Action;

"9. Endorses thg Guidelines for the development of organizations of
disabled persons, and encourages Governments to consider these guidelines
in thair national programmes;

~I Ibid., sect. IV •

.§I A/45/470.

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 9

"10. W.l.a..-lapJm Governments and bodies of the United Nations system
to participate actively in the elaboration of the standard rules on the
equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities and in this
regard to pay attention to the particular needs of women with
disabilities;

"11. ReQuests the Secretary-General to take due note of the
recommendations of the expert group meetings held at Stockholm in 1987 11
and at Jarvenpaa, Finland, in 1990 t:lat organizations of persons with
disabilities be fully represente~ in all United Nations activities
related to the Decade and beyond and. in particular, expert group
meetings;

"12. W..e.lcgmQs the announceJllent by the Government of Canada to host a
United Nations expert group meeting to be held in conjunction with
Independence '92 at Vancouver, British Columbia, in April 1992 with the
objective of drawing up a long-term strategy to implement the World
Programme of Action concerning Disabled Persons to the year 2000 and
beyond, with a particular focus on recommending practical and
action-oriented measures that could be implemented in such fields as
legislation and governing mechanisms, community-based rehabIlitation,
independent living, human rights aspects and economic independence and
the creation of an effective international mechanism to coordinate and
mouitor activities from 1992 and beyond;

"13. Welcomas also the offer of the Government of the United States
of America to host an international conference on disability, entitled
"Setting National Disability Policies - An Agenda for Action",

"14. PGidU to devote fo"r 0' its plenary meetings at its
forty-seventh session to mark, at the appropriate global level, the
conclueion of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons,

"15. ~.hDsizes the need to rationalize the work of and strengthen
the Disabled Persons Unit of the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat, in order to enable it to carry
out its role in the implementation, within existing resources, of the
objectives of the Decade in an effective and efficient manner,

"16. ~a~s its appeal to Governments for further voluntary
contributions to enable the Disabled Persons Unit to strengthen its focal
point function on issues related to disabilities;

"17. R~fJJ~ that the resources of the Voluntary Fund should be
used to support catalytic and innovative activities in order to implement
further the objectives of the World Programme of Action within the

11 See CSDHA/DDP/GME/7 of 1 September 1987.

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 10

framework of the Decade. and beyond, with priority given, as appropriate,
to progr~es and projects of the least developed countries;

"18. lnvites Governments and non-governmental organizations to
continue their contributions to the Voluntary Fund, and calls upon
Governments and non-governmental organizations that have not yet done so
to consider contributing to the Voluntary Fund so as to enable it to
respond effectively to the growing demand for assistance;

"19. Re~ueBts the Economic and Social Council at its next session to
give its views on the continuation of the Voluntary Fund, with new terms
of references in response to General Assembly resolution 45/91 and to
submit its recommendations to the Assembly at its forty-seventh session;

"20. Invites Member States to su. ,lit updated national reports to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the agenda for action;

"21.~ the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the
present resolution under the item entitled 'Social development'."

23. At the same meeting, the representative of the Philippines orally revised
the draft resolution by replacing oparative paragraph 8, which r.ead:

"8. Also requests the Secretary-General to finalize during 1992
the review of the translation into the official languages of the United
Nations of the terms 'impairment', 'disability', 'handicap' and 'disabled
person' used in the World Programme of Action;"

with the following paragraph:

"8. Also reguests the Secretary-General to fin~lize during the
next year the review of the tranSlation into the officIal languages of
the United Nations of the World Programme of Action, in particular the
use of the terms 'impairment', 'disability', 'handicap' and 'disabled
person' ;" •

24. At the 45th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee had before it the
revised draft resolution A/C.3/46/L.2l/Rev.l. Tha representative of the
Philippines, speaking on behalf of '.he sponsors, orally revised the revised
draft resolution by inserting a new fifteenth paragraph of the preamble which
read as follows:

"~!NDendinCjJ the work done by the Centre for Social Development and
Humani tar ian Affairs as the focal point J.., the United Nations system for
issues of disabilities,"

and by adding the following words at the end of operative paragraph 6:
"contained in annex I of docwnent A/C.3/46/4."

I • ••



A/461704
Englioh
Page 11

25. Subsequently, BelArus. COte d'Iyo1re, Ni~eria, S~al and the United
S~~tes of America joined in sponsoring the revised ~rBft resolution
A/C.3/46/L.2l/Rev.l.

26. Th~ Committee then adopted the revised draft resolution, as orally
revised (see patO. 28, draft resolution VII).

27. Upon the proposal of the Chairman, the Committee decided to recommend to
the General Assembly that it take note of the reports of the Secretary-General
contained in documents A/46/360, A/46/362 and Corr.l and A/46/4l4 (see
para. 29, draft decision).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

28. The ~hird Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Monitoring of international plans and programmes of action
in the field of social development

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 42/125 of 7 December 1987, in which it endorsed
the Guiding Principles for Developmental Social Welfare Policies and
Programmes in the Near Future 11 and requested the Secretary-General to take
the necessary steps to ensure the implementation of, and follow-up ,Ic~ion to,
the Guiding Principles,

Reaffirming the continued importance and value of strategies and plans of
action in different social policy areas directly related to the Guiding
Principles, notably those concerning the status of women, the ageing, youth
and disabled persons, as well as crime prevention and drug abuse, based on the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, il the International Covenant on
Economic. Social and Cultural Rights 121 and the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights 121 and the Declaration on Social Progress and
Development, lil

11 E/CONF.80/10, chap. 111.

~I Resolution 217 A (111).

101 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

111 Resolution 2542 (XXIV).

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 12

Recalling its resQlutio~ 44/65 of 8 December 1989, in which it decided,
intur alia, that social issues as concaived in the Guiding Principles should
become a major part of the international development strategy for the fourth
United Nations development decade,

Stressing the validity of Economic and Social Council resolution 1987/48
of 28 May 1987, in which the Council requested the Secretary-General to
redeploy resources to ensure appropriate follow-up action to the Interregional
Consultation on Developmental Social Welfare Policies and Programmes,

Concerned about the lack of appropriate follow-up action to the
comprehensive programme of th6 Guiding Principles in the regions of Africa,
Asia and the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean and Western Asia,

1. ~ the validity of the Guiding Principles for Developmental
Soc'al Welfare Policies and Programmes in the Near Future as a major framework
fr~ action at the local, national, regional and international levels in the
field of social welfare and development;

2. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on major issues
and programme bctivities of the Secretariat and the regional commissions
relating to social development and welfare and specific social groups; 111

3. Stresses the interrelationship between economic growth and human
welfare as one of the principal themes of the international development
strategy for the fourth United Nations development decade; 111

4. AP~l& to Governments to make use of the Guiding Principles and to
apply their recommendations, as appropriate and in accordance with their
national structures, needs and objectives, to inform the Secretary-General of
problems in their implementation and to accelerate the follow-up action to the
Interregional Consultation on Developmental Social Welfare Policies and
Programmes;

5. ~ai the inclusion of the implementation of the Guiding
Principles in the medium-term plan for the period 1992-1997 lil and the
programme budget for the biennium 1990-1991, 121 as requested in its
resolution 44/65;

lil E/CN. 5/199113 and Corr.1 and 2 and Add.l.

111 Resolution 45/199, annex.

UI QU~§..C.~tr~&~L.thJLJle.DeJ:.-li.-A.s.Jie!l'l ..lUy, Forty-fifth Session,
Supplement No. Q (A/45/6/Rev.l), vol. 11, prog. 25.

121 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fourth SesGion,
Supplement No, 6 (A/44/6/Rev,1), vol. I.

I •••



A/461704
English
Page 13

6. Urges the Secretary-General and the organizations of the United
Nations system concerned to continue to include the implementation of the
Guiding Principles in their progrwmnes of work and to assist Governments,
particularly those of the developing countries, in formulating appropriate
social welfare policies in setting up effective programmes according to thoir
needs;

7. U~~S the executive sQ~retaries of the regional commissions to give
adequate attention to the recommendations for action at the regional level
contained in the Guiding Principles;

8. Stresses the role of non-governmental and voluntary organizations in
the implementation of the relevant recommendations of the Guiding Principles,
particularly in social crisis management, as reflected in the proceedings of
tho international expert meeting on the role of voluntary organizations in
crisis management I acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, drug abuse and mass
migration as cases in point, held at Berlin from 18 to 22 November 1990;

9. Urges Member States in all regions t~ initiate regional expert group
mestings devoted to issues raised in the Guiding Principles and to translate
their recommendations into specific social policy activities;

10. ~Q~ the idea of holding regional conferences, ror example, the
Conference of Ministers Responsible for Social Affairs within the European
Region, to be held in Czechoslovakia in 1992, and the Fourth Asian and Pacific
Ministerial Conference on Social Welfare and Social Development, held in the
Philippines from 7 to 11 October 1991;

11. ReQuests the Secretary-General:

(a) To strengthen the follow-up action to the Interregional Consultation
by, in~r alia, appropriately reflecting the Guiding Principles in global
programmes and events, including the preparations for and observance of the
International Year of the Family; 121

(b) To strengthen advisory services to Governments, especially those of
developing countries, focusing on the policy, institution-building capacity,
planning, administration and training aspects of developmental social welfare;

(~) To ensure that the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs of the Secretariat, which is responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the Guiding Principles, is provided with sufficient
resources, without incurring additional expenses, tht'ough the regular budget
of tho United Nations, for an effective follow-up to the Interregional
Consultation;

~~I See r~solution 44/82.

I . ••



A/461704
English
Page 14

(d) To reflect appropriately resource and programme requirements for
monitoring the implementation of the Guiding Principles in the proposed
programme budget for 1992-1993,

(e) To report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session,
through the Commission for Social Development and the Economic and Social
Council, on the progress achieved in the implementation of and follow-up
action to the Guiding Principles and the present resolution,

12. Decideq to consider the question of the implementation of the
Gui~ing Principles for Developmental Social Welfare Policies and Programmes in
the Near Future at its forty-eighth session unner the item entitled "Social
development".

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Implemantation of the Int~LnAtional Plan of Action on Ageing
Dnd related activities

The General Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/50 of 24 May 1989,
in which the Council endorsed a draft programme of United Nations activities
relating to the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of
Action on Ageing, in 1992,

fursuant to its resolution 45/106 of 14 December 1990, in which it
endorsed the action programme on ageing for 1992 and b~yond as outlined in the
report of the Secretary-General on the question of ageing, 11.1 invited Member
States, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations to consider
innovative and effective ways of cooperating on the selection of targets in
the field of ageing during 1991 and 1992, and urged Member States, the organs,
organizations and bodies of the United Nations system and intergovernmental
ana non-goverrunental organ~zations concerned to participate in the action
programme on ageing for 1992 and beyond, especially in selecting targets in
the field of ageing, in organizing community-wide activities and in launching
an information and fund-raising campaign to celebrate the tenth anniversary of
the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing at the local,
national, regional and global levels,

Becalling that in resolution 45/106 it endorsed the convening of an
ad hoc working group of the Commission for Social Development at its
thirty-second session to monitor the activities for the tenth anniversary,
especially the launching of a global information campaign, an~ the selection
of targets that might form the basis of the third review and appraisal of the

lil A/45/420.

I • ••



A/461104
English
Page 15

Plan of Action to be mad~ by the Commission at its thirty-third session, in
1993, and recommended tl.at the Commission give consideration te the
desi~ability of convening, subject to the availability of funds, regional and
sectoral meotings on the selection of targets on ageing ~uring 1991 and 1992
and global consultations in 1993 and 1997,

A.lJio_.I:eCIUlng that, in resolution 45/106, it recognized the complexity
and rapidity oC the 8geing of the world's population and the need to have a
common basis and frame of raference for the protection and promotion of the
rights of the elderly, including the contribution that the elderly can and
should make to society,

Aware of the plight of the olderly in developing countries, particularly
the least developed among them, as well ~s those in difficult circumstances,
such as refugees, migrant workers and victims of conflict,

Ra~alllng Economic and Social Council resolution 1751 (LIV) of
16 May 1973 on the aged and social security,

1. R~~m~~ds that the United Nations define, on the basis of the
recommendations of a small expert group meeting to be held in 1991 within
existing resources, targets on ageing to provide a pragmatic focus for the
broad and ideal goals of the International Plan of Actio~ on Ageing, and issue
them as "Targets on ageingl programme recommendations at the national level
Cor the year 2001";

2. Urges Member States to identify their specific national targets on
ageing for the year 2001, on the basis of the proposed targets on ageing;

3. 1.oY.i.tes the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs
of the Secreta~iat to develop, in consultation with United Nations
organizations and bodies and international non-governmental organizations, a
set of suggested global targets designed to support implementation of the
national targets on ageing;

4. Recomme~ that the General Assembly devote four plenary meetings,
that is, two working days, at its forty-seventh session to an international
conference on ageing to consolidate a set of targets on ageing for the year
2001 and to celebrate on an appropriate global scale the tenth anniversary of
the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing;

5. U_~~S the United Nations to give special attention to implementing
the action programme on ageing Cor 1992 and beyond;

6. Calls u99~ the Secretary-General to give all pOBsib)e support, in
the form of both regular and extrabudgetary resources, to the Ageing Unit of
the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs, to enable it to
fulfil its mandate as lead agency for the action programme on ageing;

I •••



A/461704
English
Page 16

7. Ra~~~ the Secretary-General to designate the Director-General of
the United Nations Oft ice at Vienna as coordinator for the preparation of the
tenth anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of Action on
Ageing and for the implementation of the action programme on ageing for 1992
and beyond;

8. Inyites the Secretary-General to explore the feasibility of
appointing an interregional adviser on ageing to assist developing countries
in expanding their ability to respond effectively to the ageing of their
populations;

9. ~~e~ the United Nations to examine the feasibility of launching a
service compoeed of experts who are elderly, modelled on the United Nations
Volunteers;

10. Ul"ges the United Nations Postal Administration, as called upon in
Gen~ral Assembly resolution 44/67 of 8 December 1989, to issue a stamp to mark
the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of Action on
Ageing;

11. Urges the United Nations to consider, on an exceptional basis,
issuing a medal on ageing bearing the emblem of the World Assembly on Ageing
to mark activities planned for the decade 1992-2001;

12. Decides to launch a global information campaign on the action
programme on ageing for 1992 and beyond, and welcomes the cooperation of the
Department of Public Informativn and the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat and other United Nations bodies,
spocialized agencies and non-governmental organizations in this endeavour;

13. Recommends that the United Nations provide further advisory services
to countries in the process of development, change and transition, at their
request, to ensure that the issue of ageing remains an important part of their
social development programmes;

14. Adopts the United Nations Principles for Older Persons, based on the
Intern&tional Plan of Action on Ageing, annexed to the present resolution.

1 •••



A/461704
English
Page 17

Annex

UNITED NATIONS PRINCIPLES FOR OLDER PERSONS .tal

To add life to the fears that have been added to life

The General Assemblf,

Appreciating the contribution that older persons make to their societies,

Recognizing that, in the Charter of the United Nations, the peoples of
the United Nations declare, inter alia, their determination to reaffirm faith
in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in
the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small and to
promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,

~~ting the elaboration of those rights in the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, ~~I the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights 101 and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 101
and other declarations to ensure the application of universal standards to
particular groups,

In pursuance of the International Plan of Action on Ageing, adopted by
the World Assembly on Ageing and endorsed by the General ~~sembly in its
resolution 37/51 of 3 December 1982,

Appreciating the tremendous diversity in the situation of older persons,
not only between countries but within countries and between individuals, which
requires a variety of policy responses,

Aware that in all countries, individuals are reaching an advanced age in
greater numbers and in better health than ever before,

~~ of the scientific research disproving many stereotypes about
inevitable and irreversible declines with age,

~~~ that in a world characterized by an increasing number and
proportion of older persons, opportunities must be provided for willing and
capable older persons to participate in and contribute to the ongoing
activities of society,

ljl Based on the International Plan of Action on Ageing; see BQ~t-~
tb, World Assemblf on Agei~_~ienna, 26 Julf-6 August 19~ (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.82.I.16), chap. VI, sect. A.

lil Resolution 217 A (Ill).

IQI Resolution 2200 A (XXI).

I • • «



A/461704
English
Page 18

Mindful that the strains on family life in both developed and developing
countries require support for those providing care to frail older person~,

Elearin; in mJ..nd. the standards already set by th., International Plan of
Action on Ageing and the conventions, recommendations and ~esolutions of the
International Labour Organisation, the World Health Organization and other
United Nations entities,

Encourages Governments to incorporate the following principles into their
national programmes whenever possible:

Independence

1. Older persons should have access to adequate food, water, shelter,
clothing and health care through the provision of income, family and community
support and self-help.

2. Older persons should have the opportunity to work or to have access
to other income-generating opportunities.

3. Older persons should be able to participate in determining when and
at what ~ace withdrawal from the labour force takes place.

4. Older persons should have access to appropriate educational and
training programmes.

5. Older persons should be able to live in environments that are safe
and adaptable to personal preferences and changing capacities.

6. Older persons should be able to reside at home for as long as
possible.

Participation

7. Older persons should remain integrated in society, participate
actively in the formulation and implementation of policies that directly
affect their well-being and share their knowledge and skills with younger
generations.

8. Older persons should be able to seek and develop opportunities for
service to the community and to serve as volunteers in positions appropriate
to their interests and capabilities.

9. Older persons should be able to form movements or associations of
older persons.

I • ••



A/46/704
English
Page 19

10. Older persons should benefit from family and community care and
protection in accordance with each society's system of cultural vrlues.

11. Older persons should have ac~ess to health care to help them to
maintain or regaln the optimum level of physical, mental and emotional
well-baihg and to prevent or delay the onset of illness.

12. Older persons should have access to social and legal services to
enhance their autonomy, ptotection and care.

13. Older persons should be able to utilize appropriate levels of
institutional care p£ovidinq protection, rehabilitation and social and mental
stimulation in a humane and secure environment.

14. Older persons should be able to enjoy human rights and fundamental
freedoms when residing in any shelter, care or treatment facility, inclUding
full reEpect for their dignity, beliefs, needs and privacy and for the right
to make decisions about their care and the quality of their lives.

8elf-fulfilment

15. Older persons should be able to pursue opportunities for the full
development of their potential.

16. Older persons should ha~e acceSB to the educational, cultural,
spiritual and recreational resources of society.

Dignity

17. Older persons should be able to live in dignity and security and be
free of exploitation and physical or mental abuse.

18. Older persons should be treated fairly regardless of a~e, gender,
racial or ethnic background, disability or other status, and be valued
independently of their economic contribution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 111

Preparation for an~ance of the International
YeBr of the Family

The General Assembly,

Becalling its resolution 44/82 of 8 December 1989, in which it proclaimed
1994 as International Year of the Family, designated the Commission for Social
Development as the preparatory body and the Economic Bnd Social Council as the

I • ••



A/46/704
English
Paye 20

coordinating b~dy for the Year, and requestee the Secretary-General to
prepare, on the basis of his report and in consultation with Member States,
concerned specialized agencies and interested intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations, a draft progrBmme for the preparation for and
observance of the Year,

RecoIling olso its resolution 45/133 of 14 December 1990, in which it
invittid Governments, specialized agencies, intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizoLions concerned, as well BS interested notional
organizations, to exe~t all pos$ible eff~rta in the preparation for and
observance of the Year, and requested the Secretary-General to finalize a
draft programme for the preparation fOl' and observance of the Year and to
submit it for consideration by the Commission for Social Development at its
session in 1991 and by the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session,

CQnsc~ of the existence of various concepts of the fam:ly in different
socio-political and cultural systems,

Noting w_.l.ttLlultJ..&..f.D~J.QJ), that the unanimous proclamation by the General
Assembly of 1994 as International Year of the Family has increased the
awarflness and highlighted the importance of family issues among Governments,
specialized agencies, regional commissions and intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations, as well as interested national organizations
and, consequently, has promoted a better knowledge of the economic, social and
demographic processes affectinq families and their members and has focused
attention on the equal rights and responsibilities of a:l family members,

£&P_~~u~ta_APP~J.~atioQ to Governments, specialized agencies and the
non-governmental organizations concerned for the activities already taken up
in support of the objectives of the International Year of the Family, thereby
increasing awareness of family issues at local and national levels,

HAYJ,ng considere~ the report of the Secretary-General entitled
"Preparation for and observance of the International Year of the Family", UI

1. ~~ for implementation the proposals made by the
Secretary-General in his report;

2. Iny~e~ all Governments, specialized agencies, regional commissions
and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations concerned to step up
all possible efforts in the preparation for and observance of the
International Year of the Family;

3. ~l~roaa the establisl~ent by the Secretary-General of the Voluntary
Trust Fund for the Preparation for and the Observance of the International
Year of the Family;

All Po/CN.5/1991/2.

I • ••



A/461104
English
Page 21

4. Rgaffirml its invitation to all States to take prompt action to
establish national meChanisms, such as coordinating committees, to prepare
for, observe and follow up the Year, in particular for the purpose of
planning, stimulating and harmonizing the activities of the governmental and
non-governmental agencies and organizations concerned with the preparation for
and observance of the YearJ

5. Beguests the relevant United Nations preparatory and coordinating
bodies for the Year to keep prepar3tions for the Year under constant review;

6. Invites Governments to contribute, aa far as possible, resources,
including staff, to the secretariat of the YearJ

7. Invites all Governments, specialized agencies, regional commissions
and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations concerned, as well as
interested national organizations, to exert all possible efforts in the
preparation for and observance of the Year and to cooperate closely with the
Secretary-General in achieving the objectives of the YearJ

8. Begugsts that in the planning and executing of programmes and
activities for the '~ear, special attention should be given to socio-economic
and cultural conditions in developing countries in the approach to family
issuesJ

9. Bggugsts the Secretary-General to provide effective means of
coordination between the secretariat of the Year and the relevant
non-governmental organizations in support of the YearJ

10. Urge, the Secretary-General to provide adequate staff to the
secretariat of the Year and to reflect its strengthening in the proposed
programme budget for 1992-l993J

11. Begugsts the Secretary-General to report to the Commission for
Social Development at its thirty-third session on the state of preparations
for the YearJ

12. Invitgs the Commission for Social Development to ensure that all
plans, programmes and activities related to the family al'e in accordance with
the concept of equality between women and men as expressed in the Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, ill and to
ensure the incorporation into the programme of the Year of the principles
relating to policies aimed at fostering equality between women and men, as
outlined in the report of the Secretary-GeneralJ All

13. Begugsts the Commission for Social Development to keep the
Commission on the Status of Women informed of the prepa'''dtions for the Year;

ill Resolution 34/180.

I • ••



A/46/704
English
Page 22

14. gecides to conRider the question of the International Year of the
Family, on the basis of a report of the Secretary-General, at its forty-eighth
session undor the item entitled "Social development".

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

International Liter~~

The General Asse~,

Rec&lling its resolution 42/104 of 1 December 1987, by which it
proclaimed 1990 as International Literacy Year,

Recalling also its resolution 45/126 of 14 December 1990,

Recalling further that in the Universal Declaration of Hums" Rights lil
and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights lil the
inalienable right of every individual to education is recognized,

Taking note of the Plan of Action for Implementing the World D~claration
on the Survival, Protection and Development of Children in the 1990s, 121
adopted by the World Summit for Children, held in New York on 29 and
30 September 1990,

Mindful of the fact that eradication of illiteracy is one of the
paramount objectives of the International Development Strategy for the Fourth
United Nations Development Decade, ~I

gmphasizing that widtspread illiteracy, es~ecially in many developing
countries, seriously hinders the process of economic and social development
and the cultural and spiritual advancement of society.

Convinced that literacy, especially functic~al literacy and adequate
education, represents an indispensable element for the development and
harnessing of science, technology and human resources for economic and social
progress,

Confident that International Literacy Year and the World Conference on
Education for All resulted in increased awareness and support for literacy
efforts and became a turning point in the struggle for a literate world,

ill Reso'.ution 211 A (III).

241 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

~I A/45/625, annex.

~I See resolution 45/199, annex.

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 23

Appreciating the exemplary spirit of partnership and cooperation among
the sponsors of the Jomtien Confere~ce and underlining the importance of
follow-up activities that are necessary on the international, regional and
national levels in order to realize the objectives set forth in the World
Declaration on Education for All, 111

Noting that the heads of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations
Development Programme, the World Bank and other sponsors of the Jomtien
Conference, in the Statement of Solidarity to Achieve Education for All,
called upon all countries and the international community to join hands and to
do all within their power and resources to achieve the full letter and spirit
of the goal of ensuring basic education for all by the year 2000,

1. Notes with appreciatiQn the commendable work done in implementing
the prQgramme for InternatiQnal Literacy Year by the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, other specialized agencies
and other organizations of the United Nations system;

2. Commends those Governments which have launched national literacy
programmes and attained notable progress in meeting the Qbjectives of
International Literacy Year;

3. Notes with satisfaction the firm commitment and active involvement
Qf many non-governmental organizatiQns, mass media and the private sector in
support of the Year;

4. Inyites Member States, specialized agencies and other organizations
Qf the United Nations and relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to further intensify their efforts to increase literacy and
achieve education for all;

5. Appeals anew to Governments, economic and financial organizations
and institutiQns, bQth national and internatiQnal, to lend financial and
material support to the efforts to promote literacy;

6. Calls upQn the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to continue assuming the role of lead organization in ensuring
the fQllow-up to International LiterRcy Year and the World Conference on
Education for All;

7. Reguests the Secretary-General, in cooperatiQn with the
Director-General Qf the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, to submit to ~he General Assembly at its fiftieth sessiQn, in

111 Final repQrt of the World Conference Qn EducatiQn fQr All; Meeting
Basic Learning Needs, Jomtien, Thailand, 5-9 March 1990, Inter-Agency
Commission (UNDP, UNESCO, UNICEF, World Bank) for the World Conference on
EducatiQn fQr All, New York, 1990, appendix I.

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 24

1995, through the Economic and Social Council, a report on the pro~ress made
and problems encountered in the quest to achieve a literate worldl

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
au item entitled "Progress made and problems encountered in the struggle
against illiteracyl a mid-decade review".

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageingl
integration of the elderly in development

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 40/30 of 29 Novomber 1985, in which it
emphasized that the elde'~ly must be considered an important and nec&ssary
element in the development process at all levels within a given society,

Recalling also its resolution 45/106 of 14 December 1990, in which it
endorsed the action programme on ageing for 1992 111 and beyond and urged wide
participation in the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the adoption of
the International Plan of kction on Ageing,

Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/38 of
24 May 1989, in which the Council noted that women constitute a larger part of
the older popUlation and that in the years to come the number of elderly women
will increase more rapidly in the developing countries than in the developed
ones,

Noting with satisfaction the observance of the first International Day
for the Elderly on 1 October 1991,

Noting with appreciation the convening of the Expert Group Meeting on
Integration of Ageing and Elderly Women into Development, held at Vienna on
7 to 11 October 1991 by the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs of the Secretariat in collaboration with the American Association of
Retired Persons,

Noting with concern that the contributions to the United Natlons Trust
Fund for Ageing have steadily declined since 1982 and that if this trend
continues the implementation of the Plan of Action will be compromised,

Mindful of the need for innovative and effective international
cooperation in the field of ageing if countries are to achieve self-reliance
in respondinq to the ageing of their populations,

ill A/45/420.

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 2S

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on international
cooperation on ageing for 1992 and beyondl 12/

2. Recommends wide mu1tisectoral cooperation in setting global targets
on ageing to be reached by the year 2001 and invites wide participation in the
proposed interregional seminar and other meetings on target-settingl

3. Reguests Member States to consider setting appropriate and, where
feasible, quantifiable, national targets on 8geing for the year 20011

4. Beguests all participants in target-setting to pay special attention
to practical strategie3, identifying in detail the key agencies and the
nece&sary means for reaching the targetsl

S. Urges Member States to participate, at the highest level, in the
plenary meetings of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session being
dovoted, inter alia, ~o launching a set of global targets on ageing to be
reached by the year 20011

6. CAjls ypon Member States to participate in the inquiry for the third
review and appraisal of the implementation of the International Plan of Action
on Ageing, in the first half of 1992, and to take the occasion of the review
to plan ahead, setting national targets on ageing for the year 20011

7. Invites the Secretary-General to consider the feasibility of
a~pointing eminent personalities as good will ambassadors for ageing during
the decade 1992-20011

8. Inyites Member States, the Department of Public Information of the
Seoretariat, the regional commissions and non-governmental organizations to
disseminate widely the United Nations Principles for Older Persons at the
local, national, regio~al and global levels, especially in the year 1992, the
tenth anniversary of the World Assembly on Ageingl

9. Urges Member States and non-governmental org6nlzations of the
elderly to second in 1992/93 experts and administrative personnel to the
Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs to help in selected
priority activities, including the third re\iew and appraisal of the
implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageingl

10. Notes with appreciation the support given by the United Nations
Popula,tion Fund to the applied research and training project entitled
"Devel"pmental implications of demographic changel global population ageing"
bein~ implemented by the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs, and in view of the importance of the subject matter, encourage$ the
United Nations Population Fund to continue its supportl

ll.l A/46/361.

/ ...



A/461704
English
Page 26

11. Invites the United Nations Population Fund to support a senior
adviser on popUlation ageing at the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs in view of the importance of the ageing in future
population changes and the Centre's role as focal point in the United Nations
system for ageing,

\2. Calls upon the United Nations Population Fund and all other bodies
of the United Nations system involved in preparations for the Conference on
population and Development, 1994, to utilize the results of the study entitled
"Develormental implications of demographic change" as a major input to the
Conference,

13. Also calls upon the specialized agencies and other relevant bodies
of the United Nations system to give recognition to the contribution of the
elderly to social and economic development in the context of ma'or events and
conferences of the 1990s, such as those dealing with the environment, human
rights, the family, population and the advancement of women,

14. Hotes with satisfaction the recent estab1isbment, under the
patronage of the United Nations, of the Banyan Fund Associations A World Fund
for Ageing, whose main goal is to secure or broker funds for activities that
would support implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageing,

15. Also notes with satisflction the leading role of the International
Institute on Ageing, in Malta, in global training initiatives OD ageing and
its increasing involvement in other countries in the execution of projects
funded by the United Nations Population Fund,

16. Urges the United Nations, Member States and non-governr..ental
organizations to support the African Society of Gerontology in developing and
implementing a regional programme of activities on ageingl

17. Encourages non-governmental organizations and tho private sector to
continue close collaboration with the United Nations system in the field of
ageing,

18. ReqUests the Secretary-General, in celebrating the International
Year of the Family, to draw attention to the contributions that the elderly
make to the familYI

19. Invites special observance of the International Day fOl the Elderly
on 1 October 1992, the tenth anniversary of the World Assembly on Ageing,

20, Urges all organizations of the United Nations system, bilateral and
multilateral development agencies to include the elderly in their development
efforts, with particular focus on the mainstreaming approach,

21. Invites the United Nations Development Programme to include the
elderly in the programmes of their social funds that aim, inter alia, to
alleviate poverty,

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 27

22. RequestS the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution
under the item "Social development".

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

World social situation

~ General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 1392 (XIV) of 20 November 1959, 2542 (XXIV) of
11 December 1969, 40/98 and 40/100 of 13 December 1985, 42/49 of
30 November 1987, 43/113 of 8 December 1989, 44/56 of 8 December 1989 and
45/87 of 14 December 1990,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolutions 1987/39, 1987/40,
1987/46 and 1987/52 of 28 May 1987, 1989/72 of 24 May 1989, 1990/28 of
24 May 1990 and 1991/4 of 30 May 1991,

Haying consider~ the interim report of the Secretary-General on the
world social situation, 1Q/

Bearing in mind the objective of improving the well-being of the world's
population on the basis of the full and equal participation of all members of
society in the process of development and the fair distribution to them of the
benefits therefrom,

Conscious that each country has the sovereign right freely to adopt the
economic and social system that it deems the most appropriate ~nd that each
Government has the primary xesponsibility of ensuring the social progress and
well-being of the people,

Deeply concerned by the continued worsening of the economi~ and social
situation in many developing countries, particularly the least developed
countries, as evidenced by the significant decline in living conditions, the
persistence and increase of widespread poverty in a large number of those
countries and the decline in their main social and economic indicators,

Bearing in mind that certain developing countries have achieved some
economic and social progress,

Convinced that the pace of development in the developing countries should
be accelerated substantially in order to enable them to achieve their social
objectives, especially in meeting the basic needs for food, housing,
education, employment and health care and to struggle against scourges which
endanger the health and well-being of their population,

lQ/ A/46/56-E/1991/6 and Corr.l.

/ ...



0\/461704
English
Page 28

Becognizing that progress in the social and economic fields constitutes
an essential priority for national policies. the United Nations and the
international community. as well as a prerequisite for international
development and peace.

Belieying that there is a need for greater effort by the United Nations
system to study and disseminate accurate and balanced data and material on the
existing world social situation, particularly with regard to emerging trends
and institutional structures that have an impact on social development,

Mindful of the need to reflect objectively on the sensitivity and
importance of the 80cial problems of developing countries. particularly the
least developed countries.

1. Takes note of the interim report of the Secretary-General on the
world social situationl lQl

2. Hotes with congern that the interim report of the Secretary-General
on the world social situation did not adequately focus on the continuing
deterioration of the economic and social situation in many developing
countries, in particular the least developed among them. which is the
prevailing problem in many of those countriesl

3. Hotes the increasing awareness of the importance of formulating
policy measures at all levels based on the interrelationship between economic
growth and social progress in the achievement of overall developmentl

4. Hotes again with deag congern that despite efforts made at national
levels, the economic and social situation in many developing countries, in
particular in the least developed countries, continues to deterioratel

5. Ugtes also with deep concern the substantial weakening of the
overall position of the majority of devel~ping countries in international
trade and finance, which has been made worse by a dOWDward trend in commodity
prices, a serious deterioration in the terms of trade, the net transfer of
resources from developing countries, protectionism and the serious debt
burden, combined with high real interest ratesl

6. Calls upon the international community to accord particular
attention to the deteriorating economic and social situation in the developing
countries, particularly in the least developed countries, and to ensure that
emerging tendencies in global international relations do not impact negatively
on the plight of those countriesl .

7. Calls upon all Member States to promote economic development and
social progress by pursuing an interrelated set of policy measures to achieve
the goals and objectives established within the framework of national plans
and priorities for employment, education, health, nutrition, housing
facilities, crime prevention, the well-being of children, equal opportunities

I • ••



A/461704
English
Page 29

for the disabled and the ageing, full participation of youth in the
development process and full integration and participa~ion of women in
development;

8. Reaffirms the commitments and policies for international development
cooperation as set out in the Declaration on International Economic
Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and
Development of the Developing Countries, III adopted by the General Assembly
at its eighteenth special session;

9. Reaffirms the validity of the principles and objectives of the
Declaration on Social Progress and Development 111 as well as th6 Guiding
Principles for Developmental Social Welfare Policies and Programmes in the
Near Future all and calls for their effective implementation as a means of
attaining a more equitable world social situation;

10. Endorses the request of the Economic and Social Council, in
paragraph 4 of its resolution 1991/4, that the Secretary-General reorient the
draft framework for the 1993 report on the world social situation so that the
draft framework is in consonance with the requests set fOI·th in paragraph 4 of
Council resolution 1989/72;

11. Reguests the Secretary-General, in preparing the 1993 report, to
take into account the intrinsic relationship between economic growth and
social development and to analyse in depth the economic problems of the
developing countries and the impact of those problems on the world social
situation;

12. Recommends that the draft of the 1993 report be reviewed by the
Administrative Committee on Coordination to ensure that an integrated
interdisciplinary focus is given and to provide a source of information for
the report;

13. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled "Work
being done within the United Nations system on improving quantitative and
qualitative indicators on social conditions and the standards uf living"; lil

31/ Resolution S-18/3.

111 Resolution 2542 (XXIV).

la/ E/CONF.80/10, chap. Ill.

ail A/46/137-E/199l/40.

I • ••



A/46110~

English
Page 30

14. Inyites all appropriate organs, organizations and bodies of the
United Nations system to cooperate fully with the Secretary-General in the
preparation of future reports by making available all relevant information
pertaining to their respective areas of competence,

15. Dgcides to consider the issue of the world social situation under
the item entitled "Social development" at its forty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Implgmgntation (If thg World Programme of Action concgrning
Disablgd Pgrsons and thg Unitgd Nations pecadg of Disabled

Pgrsons

Thg Ggngral Assgmbly,

Regalling all its relbvant resolutions, including resolution 37/52 of
3 December 1982, by which it adopted the World Programme of Action concerning
Disabled Persons, a~/ and res~lution 37/53 of 3 December 1902, in which,
inter alia, it proclaimed the period 1983-1992 the United Nations Decade of
Disabled Persons as a long-term plan of action,

Regalling also its resolution 43/98 of 8 December 1988, in which it urged
Member States and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations
concerned to translate into action at all levels, as appropriate, the
priorities for global activities and programmes during the second half of the
Decade, such as those set forth in the annex to the resolution,

Regal1ing further the request to the Secretary-General made in its
resolution 45/91 of 14 December 1990, to shift the focus of the United Nations
programme on disability from awareness-raising to action, with the aim of
achieving a society for all by the year 2010, and considering that appropriate
means will be required to achieve this,

Regalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1991/9 of 30 May 1991,
in which the Council invited Member States to review their policies and
programmes with the aim of designing national anDual priorities until the end
of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persor5 in 1992 and concrele
long-term strategies to ensure the full implementation of the World Programme
of Action concerning Disabled Persons beyond the Decade,

welgoming the progress made by the ad hoc open-ended working group
established by the Commission for Social Development to elaborate standard
rules OD the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities,

III A/37/3511Add.l and Corr.l, annex, sect. VIII, recommendation 1 (IV).

1 •••



A/461704
Enqlish
Paqe 31

Noting with concern the deterioratinq economic and social situation of
many developinq countries, which adversely affect vulnerable qroups, inc1udinq
persons with disabilities,

Aware of the need for new and concerted efforts, more viqorous and
broader action, and measures at all levels to fulfil the objectives of the
Decade,

Expressing its appreciation for the efforts of a number of Member States
durinq the Decade to improve the conditions and we11-beinq of persons with
disabilities and the wi11inqness of those States to involve persons with
disabilities and their orqanization in all matters of concern to them,

Noting with appreciation the generous support to the Voluntary Fund for
the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons provided by some Governments
through voluntary contributions,

Aware of the important role national committees are playing in furthering
the implementation of the World Programme of Action,

Noting with appreciation the conveninq of the International Meetinq on
Roles and Functions of National Coordinating Committees on Disability in
Developinq Countri~s at Beijinq from 5 to 11 November 1990, and the adoption
of the Guidelines for the Establishment and Development of National
Coordinating Committees on Disability,

Encouraged by the emergence of orqanizations of persons with disabilities
in all regions and their positive influence on the image and condition of
persons with disabilities,

Noting the important contributions beinq made by other non-qovernmenta1
organizations in improving the status of persons with disabilities,

Recognizing the World Conqress of Rehabilitation International, the World
Congress of Disabled Peoples' International, the World Congress Blind Union,
Independence '92, and other such important events to be held in 1992 as
important activities helpinq both to mark the end of the Decade and to launch
future efforts for the disabled,

COmmending the work done by the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs as the focal point in the United Nations system for
issues of disabilities,

Commending the work being carried out by the United Nations Statistical
Office and welcoming its publication of the Disability Statistics
Compendium, ll.l

~I United Nations publication, Sales No. 90.XVII.17.

I • ••



A/oI6/70ol
English
Page 32

Having Qonsidered the report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the World Programme of Action concerning Disabled Persons
and the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons, 111

Qesirous of encouraging the continued and practical implementation of the
World Programme of Action beyond the Decade,

1. Beiterates the need to achieve the objectives set out in the agenda
for action until the end of the United Nations Decade for Disabled Persons and
beyond, 111 and the preliminary outline of a long-term strategy to the
year 2000 and beyonda a society for all, 121 contained in the report of the
Secretary-General on the feasibility study on alternative ways to mark the end
of the Decadel iQl

2. Affirms that, in implementing the agenda for action, special
attention should be given to persons with disabilities in developing countries,

3. Ipyites Member States, all organizations of the United Nations
system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations tu review and
evaluate, with the active participation of persons with diSabilities, their
current disability-related policies, programmes' and available services with a
view to identifying areas in which major progress has been achieved, as well
as obstacles encountered in the prevention, rehabilitation and equalization of
opportunities,

4. Also invites all organizations of the United Nations system to
incorporate the needs and concerns of persons with disabilities in their
programmes and activities both as active agents and beneficiariesI

5. Stresses the need, within existing resources, for priority to be
given to action-oriented programmes that will renew international consensus on
and elicit a sustained political c~mmitment by Member States to the
implementation of the World Programme of Action beyond the Decade and will
ensure the continued improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities,

6. Endorses the Beijlnq Guidelines for the Establishment and
Development of National Coordinating Committees on Disability contained in
annex 1 of document AIC.31016141

111 A/oI6/366.

111 A/45/470, sect. Ill.

121 Ibid., sect. IV.

iQl A/45/470.

/ ...



A/46/704
English
Page 33

7. BAguestB the Secretary-General to ensure that the Beijing Guidelines
are disseminated as widely as possible and to assist Member States in
undertaking follow-up measures, especially training seminars, to promote their
implementationl

8. Also reguests the Secretary-General to finalize during the next year
the review of the translation into the official languages of the United
Nations of the World Programme of Actll)n, in particular the use of the torms
"impairment", "disability", "handicap" and "disabled person"l

9. Endorses the Guidelines for the development of organizations of
disabled persons, ill and encourages Governments to consider these guidelines
in their national programnlesl

10. Calls unon Governments and bodies of the United Nations system to
participate actively in the elaboration of the standard rules on the
equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities and in this regard
to pay attention to the particular needs of women with disabilities I

11. Requests the Secretary-General to take due note of the
recommendations of the expert group meetings held at Stockholm in 1987 ill and
at Jarvenpaa, Finland, in 1990 that organizations of persons with disabilities
be fully represented in all United Notions activities related to the Decade
and beyond and, in particular, expert group meetingsl

12. Welcomes the announcement by the Governmftnt of Canada to host a
United Nations expert group meeting to be held in conjunction with
Indepencence '92 at Vancouver, British Columbia, in April 1992 with the
objective of drawing up a long-term strategy to implement the World Programme
of Action concerning Disabled Persons to the year 2000 and beyond, with a
particular focus on recommending practical and action-oriented measures that
could be implemented in such fields as legislation and governing mechanisms,
community-based rehabilitation, independent living, human rights aspects and
economic independeLce and the creation of an effective international mechanism
to coordinate and monitor activities from 1992 and beyondl

13. Welcomes also the offer of the Government of the United States of
America to host an international conference on disability, entitled "Setting
National Disability Policies - An Agenda for Action"l

14. Decidaa to devote four of its plenary meetings at its forty-seventh
session to mark, at the appropriate ?lobal level, the conclusion of the United
Nations Decade of Disabled Personsl

ill A/C.3/46/4, annex 11.

ill See CSDHA/DDP/G~m/7 of 1 September 1987.

I • ••



A/46/704
BnqUsh
Paqe 34

15. Emphasizes tbe need to rationalize the work of and strenqthen the
Disabled Persons Unit of the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs of the Secretariat, in order to enable it to carry out its role in the
implementation, within exis~inq resources, of the ob~ectives of the Decade in
an effective and efficient mannerl

16. Reiterates its appeal to Governments for further voluntary
contributions to enable the Disabled Persons Unit to strenqthen its focal
point function on issues related to disabil~tiesl

17. Reaffirma that the resources of the Voluntary Fund should be used to
support catalytic and innovative activities in order to implement further the
objectives of the World Proqr&Hme of Action within the framework of the Decade
and beyond, with priority given, as appropriate, to proqrammes and projects of
the least developed cO~4triesl

18. Invites Governments and non-governmental organizations to continue
their contributions to the Voluntary Fund, and calls upon Governments and
nOD-governmental orqani~ations that have not yet done so to consider
contributinq to t~e Vol~4tary Fund so as to enable it to respond effectively
to the growinq demand for assistancel

19. ~guests the Bc~nomic and Social Council at .ts next session to give
its views on the continua~lon of the Voluntary Fund, with new terms of
references in response to General Assembly r~solutlon 45/91 and to submit its
recommendations to the Assembly at its forty-seventh sessionl

20. Invites Member States to submit updated national reports to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the agenda for actionl

21. Reguestl the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution
under tbe item entitled nSoeial development".

* * *
29. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the followinq draft decisionl

Documents relating to social development

~be General Assembly takes not of the reports of the Secretary-Genetal
onl

(a) Policies and programmes involving' y01Athl .4..3/

.l3/ A/46/360.

.' ...



A/461704
English
Page 35

(b) Progress made in the preparations for the International Year of lhn
Family I it'

(c) Implementation of the Guiding Principles for Developmental Social
Welfare Policies and Progrwmmes in the Near Future. i2/

44/ A/46/362 and C~rr.l.

i2/ A/46/4l4.


