







































UNITED 
NATIONS A 

-_I_--- -___- -------me-_ 

General Assembly Diltr. 
LlMITED 

A/46/L.41 

6 December 1991 

OPIGINALL~ ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth seasion 
Aqenda item 37 

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA 

. 
Erpuramme of work ti the Special Commrttee &f&D& Arm rtbgiP 

v the report of the Special Committee against 
Apar theid, A/ 

1. m the Special Committee against Apartheid for the diligent 
manner in vhcch it has discharged its responsibilities in monitoring the 
situation in South Africa and in promoting concerted international support to 
the process towards the early establishment of a democratic, non-racial 
society2 

2. m note ,f the report of the Special Committee and endorses ita 
recommendations relating to its programme of work} 

3‘ Authorioea the Special Committee, in accordance with its mandate as 
the focal point for the international CafIIpaiqn against apartheid and for the 
promotion of the implementation of the Declaration on Apartheid and its 
Destructiva Consequences in Southern Africa a/ and acting with the support 
services of the United 2Wtions Centre Against Aparthefd: 

-- 

A/ A/46/22. 

21 Resolution S-1611. 

9147927 49182 {E) / . . . 



W46IL.41 
English 
Paqe 2 

(a) To continue monitoring closely developments in South Africa and the 
actions of the international community, particularly regerding appropriate 
pressure on South Africa and timely assistance to the victims aud opponents of 
apartheid: 

(b) To continue mobilizing international action in support of the early 
establishment of a democratic, non-racial South Africa, mu, through 
collection, analysis and dissemination of information, through liaison and 
consultations with Governments, intergovernmental and non-.governmeatal 
organisations and relevant groups and individuals, both inside and outside 
South Africa, able to influence public opinion and decision-making, and 
through missions, hearings, conferences, publicity and other pertinent 
activities, end to continue undertaking activities aimed at supporting the 
political process towar& the establishment of a non-racial, democratic South 
Africa: 

4. m to all Governments, intergovernmental and non-~governmental 
organisations to increase their cooperation with the Special Committee and the 
Centre Against Apartheid in the discharge of their mandates; 

5. r(rtcruests all components of the United Nations system to Cooperate 
further with the Special Committee and the Centre Against Apartheid in their 
activities in order to ensure consistency, improve coordination and efficient 
use of available resources and avoid duplication of efforts in the 
implementation of the relevant resolutioras of the General Assembly and the 
Sscurity Council: 

6. &g4@& to all Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmontal 
otganfoatfons, information media and individuals to cooperate with the Centre 
Against Apartheid and the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat 
in their activities relating to South Africa and, in particular, in 
disseminating information on the evolving situation in South Africa and on the 
considerable assistance needs of the opponoots of apartheid and the 
disadvantaged sectors of South African society in rectifying the glaring 
socio-economic inequalities in their country, and further appeals to them to 
make generous contributions to the Trust Fund for Publicity against Apartheid: 

7. w to continue the authorisation of adequate financial 
provision in the regular budget of the United Nations to enable the African 
Dational Congress of South Africa and the Pan Africanist Congress of Asania to 
maintain offices in Uow York in order to participate effectively in the 
deliberations of the Special Committee and other appropriate bodies: 

8. Decides that the special allocation of 4R0,OOO United States dollars 
to the Special Committee for 1992 from the regular budget of the United 
nations should be used towards the cost of special projects aimed at promoting 
the process towards the elimination of apartheid and the democratisation of 
South Africa, with particular emphasis on the issues of constitution btlilding, 
human rights, domestic peace, education and training and ways to he3-p address 
the serious socio-economic inequalities in the country+ 


