







































UNITED 
NATIONS 

Generaf Assembly Distr. 
LIMITED 

A/46/L.29 
2 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 34 

COOPERATION BETWEEN THB UNITED NATIONS AND 'EBB 
LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES 

Sa Svwab Tunisia. R~D~c, 

Coomrw between the w  the m 
stf Arab RaWa 

w  its previous resolutions on the promotion of cooperation 
between the United Nations and the League of Arab States, ' 

Baoina_conafdereB the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation 
between the Unite& Nation8 end the League of Arab States, A/ 

w  the decision of the Council of the League of Arab States that 
it considers the League as a regional organisation within the meaning of 
Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United HatiOnS, 

wo wit- the desire of the League of Arab State8 to 
consolidate and develop the existing ties with the United Nations in all areas 
relating to the maintenance of international peace and security, and to 
cooperate in every possible way with the United Nations in the implementation 
of Unite& Nations resolutions relating to Lebanon and to the question of 
Palestine and the situation in tho Middle East, 

11 A/46/43%. 

91-46782 39772 (E) / . . . 



A/46/L. 29 
English 
Page 2 

m of the vital importance for the countries members of the League of 
Arab States of achieving a just, cOmpreh8nSiv8 and durable solution to the 
Middle East conflict and the question of Palestine, the core of the conflict, 

&w that the strengthening of international peace and security is 
directly related, int;er , to economic development, disarmament, 
decolonization, stilf-determination and the eradication of all forms of racism 
and racial discrimination, 

Convinced that the maintenance and further strengthening of cooperation 
between the United Nations system and the League of Arab States contribute to 
the promotion of the purposes and principles of the United Nations, 

. 
Also cm of the need for more efficient and coordinated utilization 

of availtile economic and financial resources to promote common objectives of 
the two organizations, 

&~~g&&g the need for closer cooperation between the United Nations 
system an% th8 League of Arab States and its specialized organizations in 
realizing the goals and objectives set forth in the Strategy for Joint Arab 
Economic Development adopted by the Eleventh Arab Summit Conference, hel% at 
Amman in November 1780, 2.1 

. ea the statement of - on cooperation between 
the United Nations an% the League of Arab States, and having noted the 
emphasis place% therein on follow-up actions and procedures on the 
r8COITUrI8ndatiOn8 in the political, SOCial. cultural and administrative fields 
adopted at the meetings b8tWe8n the repr8sentativeJ * of the General Secretariat 
of tha League of Arab States and its specialized organizations and th8 
secretariats of the United Nations an% other organizations of the United 
Nations system, as well as on the recommendations relating to political 
matters contained in the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, 

1. m note with satisfaction of the report of the 
Secretary-General; A/ 

2. ~onune~ the continue% efforts of the Loague of Arab States to 
promote multilateral cooperation among Arab States an% requests the United 
Nations system to continue to lend its supportf 

3. mses its&nreciation to the Secretary-General for the 
follow-up action taken by him to implement the proposals a?opte% at the 
meetings between the representatives of the secretariats of the United Nations 
and other orgaaizationo of the United Hationa system and the General 
Secretariat of the League of Arab States and its specialized organizations at 
Tunis, Amman and Geneva; 

21 See A/35/719-S/14289, annex. 

/ . . . 



A/46/L. 29 

English 
Page 3 

* . 
4. Eroresses its aDDreclat&on also to the Secretary-General for his 

efforts to implement Security Council resolution 425 (1978) of 19 March 1978 
and commends the League of Arab States and its Tripartite High Committee for 
their endeavours to promote the peace process and reconstruction efforts in 
Lebanon; 

5. Bequests the Secretary-General to continue to strengthen cooperation 
with the General Secretariat of the League of Arab States for the purpose of 
implementing United Nations resolutions relating to the question of Palestine 
and the situation in the 'Middle 'East in order to achieve a just, comprehensive 
and durable solution to the Middle East conflict and the question of 
Palestine, the core of the conflict: 

6. Bequests the Secretariat of the United Nations and the General 
Secretariat of the League of Arab States, within their rezpective fields of 
competence, to intensify further their cooperation towards the realization of 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the 
strengthening of international peace and security, economic development, 
disarmament, decolonizaticn, self-determination and the eradication of all 
forms of racism and racial discrimination: 

7. -0 reauestg the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to 
strengthen cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and other 
organizations of the United Nations system and the League of Arab States and 
its specialized organisations i-x orfler to enhance their capacity ta serve the 
mutual interests of the two organizatioas in the political, economic, social, 
humanitarian, cultural and administrative fields; 

8. Further resuests the Secretary-General to continue to coordinate the 
follow-up action to facilitate the implementation of the proposals of a 
multilateral nature adopted at the Tunis meeting in 1983, and to take 
appropriate action regarding the proposals adopted at provious meetings, 
including the following: 

(a) Promotion of contacts and consultations between the counterpart 
programmes of the United Nations system; 

(b) Setting up joint sectoral inter-agency working groups; 

9. Calls UDOQ the specialized agencies and other organizations and 
programmes of the United Nations system: 

(a) To continue to cooperate with the Secretary-General and the 
programmes, organisations and agencie s concerned within the United Nations 
system and the League of Arab State:; and i.tn npecialized organizations in the 
follow-up of multilateral proposals aimed at strengthening and expanding 
cooperation in all fields between the IJnited Nations system and the League of 
Arab States and its npecialized agencies; 



N46/L.29 
Engl iah 
Page 4 

(b) To maintain md increase contacts and improve mechanism of 
consultations with the counterpart programmea, orgauizations and agencies 
concerned regarding projects and programmas, in order to facilitate their 
implementation; 

(c) To associate whenever possible with organisations and institutions 
of the League of Arab States in the execution and inqlementatitin of 
development projects in the Arab region; 

(d) To inform the Secretary-General, not later than 15 May 1992, of the 
progress of their cooperation with the League of Arab States and its 
specialieed organiaatione, in particular the follow-up action taken on the 
multilateral and bilateral proposals adopted at the previous meetings between 
the two orgahiaations; 

10. Decides that, in crder to intensify cooperation and for the purpose 
of review and appraisal of progress as well as to prepare comprehensiv6 
periodic reports, a general meeting between the United Nationa system and the 
League of Arab State8 should take place once every two years, the next general 
meeting to be held in 1992, and inter-agency sectoral meetings should be 
organised annually on areas of priority and wide importauce in the development 
of the Arab Statest 

11. Takes of the intention of the League of Arab Skates to hold a 
high-level Arab regional meeting for children in 1992 and requests the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations and the organizations and agencies of 
the United Nations system to cooperate with the League of Arab States ia the 
furtherance of this objectives 

12. m that the United Nations and the other organioationo ot 
the United Nations system should utilize Arab expertise to the extent posoible 
in projects undertaken in the Arab regiont 

13. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations in cooperation 
with tie Secretary-General of the League of Arab States, to encourage periodic 
coanultatiou between representatives of the Secretariat of the United Nations 
and of the General Secretariat of the League of Arab States to review and 
etrangthen coordination mechanisms with a view to accelerating implen&u&ation 
and follow-up action of multilateral projects, proposals and recomsnendationr 
adopted by the meetings between the two organiaationst 

14. m that the next general meeting between the United Nations 
syatem and the League of Arab States address itself to the development of a 
mechanism for enhancing cooperation between the two organiaationst 

15. mther reauestfi the Secretary-General to submit to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh seanion a progress report on the implementation 
of the present resolution2 

/ .t. 



w4wI.a. 29 
Elqlirh 
Page 5 

16. Da to inciude in the provisional agenda of itr forty-seventh 
aesrion the itea l tit1.d "Cooperation btwemn tb United Yi;rtionr and the 
Leagus, of Arab Stator". 

--w-w 


