
















































benwed Assembly
Diets m
QEHERAL

A/46/669
25 November 1991
ENQLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Forty-sixth eeseion
Agenda item 56

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS TO ASSURE
NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON SZATES  AGAINST THE USE OR THREAT OF USE

OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

F i r s t  Cm

mnorw: Mr. Pablo Emilio SADER (Uruguay)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons" was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-sixth seasion of
the General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolution 45/54  cf
4 December 1990.

2. At ita 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decic¶ed  to include the item in
its agenda an8 to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At’ its Ind meeting, on 10 October 1991, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely,
i:ems 47 to 65. The deliberations on those items took place between the
3rd and 24th meetings, from 14 to 30 October (see A/C.1/46/PV.3-24).
Consideration of ancl  action on draft resolutions on those items took place
between the 25th and 37th meetings, from 4 to 15 November
(see A/C.1/46/PV.25-37).

4. In connection with item 56, the First Committee had before it the
tdlowing documents:

91-45723  0662P  (E) / . . .



A/46/669
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmsmentt A/

(b) Lettrr dated 19 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
Turkey to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the text of the doauments  adopted by the Twentieth Islamic Conference of
Foreign Ministers, held at Istanbul from 4 to 6 August 1991 (A/46/466-W23055)r

(a) Lettor dated 23 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
the Demooratia People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
t h e  Searotary-Qsneral  (A/46/493)t

(d) Letter dated 25 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral  (A/C.1/46/12).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS A/C.1/46/L.31 AND Rev.1

On 1 November 1991, WC -a of),
L

wSAKr
and &i Lanka  submitted a draft resolution eatitled

“Conclusion of effective international arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons”
(A/C.1/46/L.31),  which was later also sponsored by w.

6. On 12 November, the aponaors  submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/46/L.31/Rev.l),  whioh  was introduced by the representative of Pakietan
at the 36th meeting, on 15 November. The revised draft resolution contained
the following changes t

(a) The third preambular paragraph, which had read:

@a- at the arm0 race, in particular the nuclear-arms
race, and the possibility  of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons8’

was deleted and wan replaced by the original fifth preambular paragraph)

(b) A new fourth preambular paragraph was inserted, reading:

@I- that, despite recent progress in the field of nuclear
disarmament, further efforts are neaessary towards the achievement of the
goal of general and complete disarmament, under effective international
control”t

(c) The sixth preambular paragraph, which had read:

a l  Aaaemblv. Seaeiop,

/ . . .



A/46/669
English
Page 3

“m the principle of the non-use of force or threat
of forae enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,”

wa8 rev i sed  to  readr

“m strictly to abide by the relevant provisiona of the
Charter of the United Nations on the non-use of foroe or threat of fox.ce*‘t

(d) The sixteenth preambular paragraph, which had read:

*‘w note fur- of the unilateral  dealsrations on the seourity
of non-nualear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons made by all nuclear-weapon States,”

wag rev i sed  to  reada

“w note further of the unilateral declarations made by all
nuclear-weapon States on their policies of non-use or non-threat of use
of nuclear weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States”)

(e) At the end of the nineteenth preambular paragraph, the phrase “in
particular resolution 45154  of 4 December 1990” was added1

(f) The original twentieth preambular paragraph, which had read:

“m of promoting the implementation of its resolution 45/54  of
4 Deaember  199018*

wa8 deleted1

(g) In operative paragraph 3, the phrase *‘to demonstrate the political
will and flexibility necessary to reach agreement*’ was revised to read: “to
work actively towards an early agreement”.

7 . At it8 36th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/46/L.31/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 133 to none, with
2 abstentions (see para. 8). The voting was as follows: 21

In: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil, Brunei.
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cdte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Caechoslovakia,  Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,

21 Subsequently, the delegations of the Congo and Ecuador indicated
that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A/46/669
English
Page 4

Denmark, Djibouti, Dominiaan  Republic, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Orenada, Ouinea, Quyana,  Hungary, ‘loeland,  India,  Indonesia,
Iran (Islamia Republia of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republio,  Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Lieahtenstein,  Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagasoar  , Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexiao, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mosambique,  Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Niaaragua,  Niger, Niger ia, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Quinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of ltorea,
Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,  Sweden. Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates,
United Republia of Tanaania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Veneauela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe.

Aerairrst: None.

&&&&lqt United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and
United States of Ameriaa.

III. RECOWENDATION OF THE FI2ST COWITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the Qeneral Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

eintsrnafianalm  toa
Statea urre or tu of w
Qf v

I

Bearing in u the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States of
the world with regard to ensuring lasting security  for their peoples,

Coavincea  that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and to
the  surv iva l  o f  civilisation,

m the progress achieved in recent years in both nuclear and
conventional disarmament,

m that, despite recent progrew in the field of nuclear disarmament,
further efforts are necessary towards the achievement of the goal of general
and complete disarmament, under effective international  control,

/ . . .



A/46/669
English
Page 5

Alao that nuolear disarmament and the complete elimination  of
nuolear weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

Detsrmined  strictly to abide by the relevant prwisiona  of the Charter of
the United Nations on the non-use of force or threat of force,

Reaacmisin<r  that the independence, territorial  integrity and sovereignty
of non-nuclear-weapon States need to be safeguarded against the use or threat
of use of forae, including the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

[larraiderincr  that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal
basis, it is imperative for the international aomunity  to develop effective
measurea and arrangements to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of .\uclear  weapons from any quarter,

wslep that effective measures and arrangements to assure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nualear weapons
can contribute positively to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

Beqrin<r  in u paragraph 59 of the Final Doaument of the Tenth Special
Session of the Qeneral Assembly, a/ the first apeoial session devoted to
disarmament, in whioh it urged the nuclear-weapon States to pursue efforts to
aonolude, as appropriate, effective arrangsmenta  to ‘Josure  non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and desirous of
promoting the implementation of the relevant provisions of the Final Document,

w the relevant parts of the special report of the Committee on
Diaarmanent, 41 submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special
session, &/ the second special session devoted to disarmament, and of the
special report of the Conference on Disarmament submitted to the Assembly at
its  f i fteenth special  session,  61 the third special  session devoted to
disarmament, aa well as of the report of the Conference on its 1991
aeasion,  11

21 Resolution S-10/2,

41 The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on ,
Disarmsment  as from 7 February 1984,

rda of -denera1  baaemblu,Twv ,
(A/S-12/2), sect. 1II.C.

w Ibid., Fifteentht No. 2 (A/3-15/2),
s e c t .  1II.F. \

i!/ Ibid.,  msesaion, SB NO .  27 (A/46/27) ,  paras.  92
and 93.

/ . . .



A/46/669
English
Page 6

v paragraph 12 of the Dealsration of the 1980s as the Second
Disarmament Deaade,  contained in the annex to its resolution 35/46  of
3 December 1980, whiah  states, malia, that all efforts should be exerted
by the Committee on Disarmament urgently to negotiate with a view to reaching
agreement on effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

)QL&ag the in-depth negotiations undertaken in the Conference on
Disarmament and its Ad Hoc Committee on Effeotive International Arrangements
to Assure Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use of
Nuclear Weapons, with a view to reaching agreement on this item,

T&li~g noa of the proposals submitted under that item in the Conference
on Disarmament, including the drafts of an international convention,

Takincr_note  u of the decision of the Ninth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1989, 81 as well as the relevant recommendations of the
Organisation of the Islamic Conference reiterated in the Final Connnuniqud  of
the Twentieth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Istanbul from
4 to 8 August 1991, 21 calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to reach an
urgent agreement on an international aonvention  to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

-note fur- of the unilateral declarations made by all
nuclear-weapon States on their policies of non-use or non-threat of use of
nuclear weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States,

u the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to aamure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
&a well as the difficulties pointed out in evolving a common i3ppKOaCh
acceptable to al l ,

v the greater willingness to overcome the difficulties
encountered in previous years,

Recsllfncr  i ts  relevant resolutions adopted in previous years,  in
particular resolution 45154  of 4 December 1990,

1. Reaffirma  the urgent need to reach an early agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weaponat

&I S e e  A/44/551-S/20670,  annex*

e/ See  A/46/406-$/23055,  annex  I .



A/46/669
English
Page 7

2. Notes that in the Conference on Disarmamant  there
is no objection, in principle, to the idea of an international convention to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclesr

*‘r weapons, although the difficulties as regards evolving a common approach
acceptable to all have also been pointed outr

ml
3 .  &s&!+.S t o  a l l  S t a t e s , especially the nuclear-weapon States, to work

actively towards an early agreement on a common approach and, in particular,
on a common  formula that could be included in an international instrument of a
legally binding character1

4. w that further intensive efforts should be devoted to the
search for such a common approach or common formula and that the various
alternative approaches, including, in particular, those considered Pn the
Conference on Disarmament, should be further explored in order to overcome the
d i f f i c u l t i e s ;

5. B that the Conference on Disarmament should actively
continue intersive negotiations with a view to reaching early agreement and
concluding efcective  international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, taking into
account the widespread support for the conclueion  of an international
convention and giving consideration to any other proposals &esigned to secure
the same objectiver

6. Deei&& to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh
session the item entitled “Conclusion of effective international arrangements
to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or throat of use of
nuclear weapons”.


