







































UNITED 
NATIONS 

General Assembly Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/46/72'/Add.l 
13 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: $ICLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 98 

RUMAN RIGHTS QUESTI6NS 

IMPLEMENTATION OF HUMAN BIGHTS INSTRUMENTS 

HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS, INCLUDING ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES FOR 
IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND 

FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS 

HUMAN RIGRTS SITUATIONS AND REPORTS OF SPECIAL RAPPOXTEURS 
AND REPRESENTATIVES 

Reoort of the Third Committee (Part II)* 

Pamorteur: Ms. Rosemary SEMAFUMU (Uganda) 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

(b) Buman riahts gj&estions.includincralternativezQ6&RR 
for imnrovina the effective eniovment of human riuhta 
a a undamental freedom4 II f  

DD. Draft resolutions A/C.3/46/L.61 and Rev,& 

1. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November 1991, the representative of the 
Unitea States of America, on behalf of Ar aentina. Bulaa i 
Costa Rica. Czechoslovakia. El Salvador. Haiti. Honduras. Hunaarv. Italv, 
* r 1 R i n, theUnion 

* The report of the Committee on this item will be issued in two parts 
(see also A/46/721). 

91-49149 07463 (E) /... 

i Best Copy Avallable 



A/46/12l/hdd.l 
English 
Page 2 

~f~oviet.socialiet. the Y gKinaaom 
-era Ireland and the United States of Ameria subsequently joined by 
)&9&3& introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L:61) entitled l*Enhancinq the 
effectiveness of tbe principle of periodic and genuine elections", which read 
a8 follows* 

, I  m General Assembly, 

,I mq its resolutions 451150 of 16 December 1990, 44/146 of 
15 December 1969 and 43/157 of 6 December 1988, as well as Commission on 
Human Rights resolution 1989151 of March 1989, A/ 

I, Takina nOtQ of the report of the Secretary-General .@ on enhancing 
the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections, 

"J&ware of its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to 
develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the 
principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples and to 
promote and enCOUraq8 respect for human rights and fundamental fre8dom8 
for all, 

the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 21 which 
provide that everyone has the right to take part in the government of his 
or her Country. directly or through freely Chosen representatives, that 
everyone has th8 right of equal access to public service in his or her 
country, that the will of the people shall be the basis of the authority 
of government. and that this will shall be expressed in periodic and 
genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and 
shall be held by secret VOt8 or by equivalent fro8 voting procedures, 

"Rotinq that the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights p/ provides that every citisen shall have the riqht and th8 
opportunity, without distinction of any kind, such ae race, colour, sex, 
language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social 
origin, property, birth or other status, to take part in the conduct of 
public affairs, directly or through freely chosen representatives, to 
vote and to be elected at genuine periodic elections which shall be by 
universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret ballot, 
quaranteeinq the fr88 8xpr8st3ion of th8 will of the electors, and to have 

Y see OfficiaZ& 
&pnlement No. 2 (E/1989/20), chsp. 11, 88Ct. A. 

21 A/46/609 end Corr.1 and Add.1 and 2. 

91 Reoolution 217 A (III). 

41 888 resolution 2200 A iXIij, idzier. 

/... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 3 

access, on general terms of equality, to public service in his or her 
country, 

ggCont3emn~ng the system of apartheid and any other denial or 
abridgement of the right to vote on the grounas of race, colour, sex, 
language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social 
origin, property, birth or other status, 

w Recalling that, pursuant to Article 2 of the Charter, all States 
enjoy sovereign equality ana that each State, in accordance with the will 
of its people, has the right freely to choose and develop its political, 
social, economic ana cultural systems, 

*'RBm that there is no single political system or electoral 
method that is equally suited to all nations and their people, 

II t with anvreciation the various technical assistance ana 
aavisory services which the Centre for Human Rights ana the Department of 
Technical Cooperation for Development of the United Nations Secretariat 
and the Unitea Nations Development Programme are proviaing to Member 
States, at their request, in their transition towards aemocracy, ana 
invites those bodies to continue ana intensify these efforts as requested, 

'Taki.na note of the electoral assistance which the Organization is 
providing to Member States at their request, 

"RBcmg that the designation of a Coordinator for Electoral 
Matters w0uia enhence the capability of the Organisation to respond 
effectively to requests from Member States for electoral assistance, 
while retaining the necessary flexibility, 

"1. EgPtesses its anseciatb to the Secretary-General for his 
report on enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of perioaic and 
genuine elections; 

‘12 . Ifnaerscorga the significance of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights, which establish that the authority to govern shall be basea on 
the will of the people, as expressed in periodic and genuine elections: 

“3. §&ressea its conviction that perioaic an8 genuine elections are 
a necessary and indispensable element of sustainea efforts to protect the 
right8 end interests of the governea and that, as a matter of practical 
experience, the right of everyone to take part in the government of his 
or her country is a crucial factor in the effective enjoyment by all of a 
wide range of other human rights and fundamental freedoms, embracing 
political, economic, social and cultural rightsr 

"4. Decla+_es that determining the will of the people requires an 
electoral process that provides an equal opportunity for 5ii aititets t= 

I... 



A/46/121/Add.1 
English 
Page 4 

become candidates and put forward their political View% individuallY and 
in cooperation with others , as provided in nations1 constitutions and 
laws; 

"5. @coanisea that the efforts of the international community to 
enhance the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine 
elections should not call into question each State's sovereign right, in 
accordance with the will of its people, freely to choose and develop its 
political, social, economic and cultural systems, whether or not they 
conform to tbe preferences of other States; 

"6. J)&derscorea the duty of each member of the international 
community to respect the decisions taken by other States in freely 
choosing and developing their electoral institutions; 

"7. maffirma that apartheid must be abolished, that the systematic 
denial or abridgement of the right to vote on the grounds of race or 
colour is a gross violation of human rights and an affront to the 
conscience and dignity of mankind and that the right to participate in a 
political system based on common and equal citizenship and universal 
franchise is essential for the exercise of the principle of periodic and 
genuine elections; 

"8. a the value of the electoral assistance that the United 
Nations has provided at the request of Member States, in the context of 
full respect for their sovereignty; 

"9. Believes that the international community should continue to 
give serious consideration to ways in which the United Nations can 
respond to the requests of Member States as they seek to promote and 
strengthen their electoral institutions aa procedures: 

"10. m tbe Secretary-General to designate a senior United 
Nations official in his Office8 a8 Coordinator for Electoral Matters who 
would carry out the functions set out in paragraph 81 of the 
Secretary-General's report; 

"11. Detetmines that, as provided in paragraph 81 of the report, the 
Coordinertor w0uia neither pre-empt nor supersede ongoing arrangements 
regarding electoral assistance nor prejudice the operational arrengements 
for missions which the Organisation may decide to undertake; 

'92. Itecruest%. the Secretary-General, to allocate ftom within 
existing re8ontce8 an8 as appropriate, a small nwnbet of staff ana otbet 
tesoutces to support the Coordinator for Electoral Matters in carrying 
out his or hot functions; 

"13. &E#BQ&& the Centre for Human Rights for Development of the 
Secretatiat end tbe United Nations Development Programme and the 
Daaa&Jm?lnt of yeahciiaa_l rnnnremc4nn for C&e l a-L..L--- ----A---* 

-I -.- --..--- - ---c------- 
-..w-*.MY* OLabbYLQI 

/... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 5 

assistance they have and are providing to requesting Member States, and 
requests that they collaborate closely with and inform the Coordinator 
for Elector&l Matters of the assistance provided and activities 
undertaken by them in the area of electoral assistance; 

"14. &&6 the Secretary-General to notify the competent organ of the 
United Nations upon receipt of official requests for electoral 
verification, and upon the direction of'that organ, provide appropriate 
assistancet 

"15. Reauest8 the Secretary-General to establish a voluntary trust 
funa to finance electoral assistance missions in cases where the 
requesting Member State is unable to do so in whole or in part and to 
develop guidelines for disbursements therefrom3 

"16. Affirm8 the effectiveness of, and the need for coordination 
with regional organisations and other relevant entities having 
international electoral assistance experience3 

"11. Reauests the Secretary-General, in accordance with paragraph 82 
of his report, to make recommendations to the General Assembly at its 
forty-seventh session regarding guidelines and terms of reference for 
United Nations electoral involvement; 

"18. Also reauew the Secretary-General to report to the Assembly 
at its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the present 
resolution and on the Organisation's experience in providing electoral 
assistance to Member States as well as the nature and disposition of the 
requests from Member States under the item entitled 'Human rights 
questions'." 

2. At the 57th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of the United 
States of America, on behalf of At n 1 laari 
Rica. Czechoslovakia. El Salvador, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti. Honduras. Hunuarv. 
Italv. Luxemboura. Malta, the &rshall Island a. 0 av. Panama. Poland, N rw 
Romania. Ukraine, the Union of Soviet Socialist ReDubliC& the United QnadOm 
of re at Britain an8 Northe n I G r relend and the United States of America, 
introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.61/Rev.l) entitled 
YInhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine 
elections", which read aa follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"pecallinq its resolutions 44/146 of 15 December 1989 and 451150 of 
18 December 1990, as well as Commission on Euman Rights resolution 
1989151 of I March 1989, 91 

I... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 6 

wa Q t rea the report of the Secretary-General on enhancing 
the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections, W 

"Aware of its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to 
develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the 
principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples end to 
promote and encourage respect for human rights and fun&mental freedoms 
for all. 

" eaf irm ing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 11 which 
provides that everyone has the right to take part in the government of 
his or her country, directly or through freely chosen representatives, 
that everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his or 
her country, that the will of the people shall be the basis of the 
authority of government an8 that this will ohall be expressed in periodic 
and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and 
shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures, 

"potinq that the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights 81 provides that every citisen shall have the right an6 the 
opportunity, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, 
language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social 
origin, property, birth or other status, to take part in the conduct of 
public affairs, directly or through freely cnosen representatives, to 
vote an& to be elected at genuine periodic elections which shall be by 
universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret ballot, 
guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the electors, and to have 
access, on general terms of equality, to public service in his or her 
country, 

" 0nUemning the system of apartheid and any other denial or 
abriagement of the right to vote on the grounds of race, colour, sex, 
language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social 
origin, property, birth or other status, 

" ecalling that, under the Charter. all States enjoy sovereign 
equality and that each State, in accordance with the ~111 of its 
has the right freely to choose and develop its political, soc.ial, 

people, 

economic and cultural systems, 

"%E&qG&z& that there is uo single political system or electoral 
method that ia equally Suited to all nations and their people an& that 

w A/46/609 and Add.1 and 2. 

z/ Resolution 217 A (III). 

81 See resolution 2100 A (XXI), annex. 

/ . . . 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 7 

the efforts of the international community to enhance the effectiveness 
of the principle of periodic ad genuine elections should not call into 
question each State's sovereign right, in accordance with the will of its 
people, freely to choose and develop its political, social, economic and 
cultural systems, whether or not they conform to the preferences of other 
States. 

, I  Fotina with amnreciatioq Che various technical assistance and 
advisory services that the Centre for Human Rights and the Department of 
Technical Cooperation for Development of the Secretariat and the United 
Nations Development Programme are providing to Member States, at their 
request, and inviting those bodies to continue and intensify these 
efforts as requested, 

"Takina not6 of the electoral assistance provided to Member States 
at their request by the Organization, 

"&ffirm&lg that electoral verification by the united Nations should 
remain an exceptional activity of the Organisation to be undertakesr in 
well-defined circumstsnces, inter aliq, primarily in situations with a 
clear international dimension, 

"Takina not6 of the criteria contained in paragraph 79 of the 
Secretary-General's report Q/ which ought to be mst before agreeing to 
requests for electoral verification, 

"1. Takes note with anvreciatiog of the report of the 
Secretary-General. on enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of 
periodic aa genuine elections; 

"2. Underscorea the significance of-the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights, which establish that the authority to govern shall be based on 
the will of th6 people, as expressed in periodic ana genuine elections; 

"3. -8 its conviction that periodic aa genuine elections are 
a necessary 6nd indispensable slement of sustained efforts to protect the 
rights and interests of the governed and that , as a matter of practical 
6xpBri6nC6, th6 right Of eV6ryOn6 t0 tak6 part in the gOV6tMl66t Of his 
or her country is a crucial factor in th6 effective enjoyment by all of a 
Wid6 rang6 of other hum6n rights end fundamental freedoms, embracing 
political; economic, social and cultural rights; 

"4. .peclarm that &termining the will of th6 people requires an 
electoral process that prOVid6S an equal opportunity for all citisens to 

I... 



A/46/12l/A8d.l 
English 
Page 8 

become candidates and put forward their political viewer individually and 
in cooperation with others , as provided in uatio:al constitutions and 
laws, 

"5. Underscore5 the duty of each Member State, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, to respect the 
decisions taken by other States, in accordance with the Will Of their 
people, in freely choosing and developing their electoral institutions: 

"6. Beaffirms that apartheid must be abolished, that the Systematic 
denial or abridgement of the right to vote on the grounds of race Or 
colour is a gross violation of human rights and an affront to the 
conscience and dignity of mankind, and that the right to participate in a 
political system based on commvn and equal citizenship and universal 
franchise is essential for the exercise of the principle of periodic and 
genuine elections: 

“7 . Affirms the value of the electoral assistance that the United 
Nations has provided at the request of Member States, in the Context Of 
full respect for their sovereigntyr 

"8. Believes that the international community should continue to 
give serious consideration to ways in which the United Nations can 
respond to the requests of Member States as they seek to promote and 
strengthen their electoral institutions and procedures: 

"9. Bndorsea the Secretary-General's view that he should designate 
a senior official in the Offices of the Secretary-General to act as focal 
point, in addition to existing duties and in order to ensure consistency 
in the handling of requests , who would assist the Secretary-General to 
coordinate and consider requests for electoral verification and to 
channel requests for electoral assistance to the appropriate office or 
programme, to ensure careful consideration of requests for electoral 
verification, to build on experience gained to develop an institutional 
memory, to develop and maintain a roster of international experts who 
could provide technical assistance as well as assist in the verification 
of electoral processes and to maintain contact with regional and other 
intergovernmental organisations to ensure appropriate working 
arrangements with them end the avoidance of duplication of efforts and 
requests the Secretary-General to designate such sn official to take on 
these tasks; 

*'IO. petermina that the designation of the senior official would 
neither pre-empt nor supersede ongoing arrangements regarding electoral 
assistance nor preju8ice the Operational arrangements for missions that 
the Organisation may decide to undertake; 

"11. Jteauest6 the Secretary-General to allocate from within existing 
resources and, as appropriate, a small number of staff and other 
resources to support the designated senior officiai in carrying out his 
or her functions; 

/... 



A/46/121/Add.l 
El@iSh 

Page 9 

"12. &~g9~$& the Centre for Xuman Rights an% the Department of 
Technical Cooperation for Development of the Secretariat and the United 
Nations Development Programme for the technical electoral assistance they 
have and are providing to requesting Member States and requests that thhcy 
collaborate closely with and inform the senior official designated by the 
Secretary-General of the assistance provided and activities undertaken by 
them in the area of electoral assistancet 

"13. && the Secretary-General to notify the competent organ of the 
United Nations upon receipt of official requests by a Member State for 
electoral verification and, upon the direction of that organ, to provide 
appropriate assistance; 

"14. EQauesu the Secretary-General to estsbish, in accordance with 
United Nations financial regulations, a voluntary trust fund for cases 
where the requesting Member State is unable to finance, in whole or ia 
part, the electoral verification mission aad to propose guidelines for 
disbursements therefrom; 

"15. Affia the effectiveness of aad the need for coordination with 
iatergovernmental organisations, including regional organizatioas having 
international electoral assistance experience; 

"16. Commend9 the efforts of non-governmental organisations that 
have provided electoral assistance at the request of the Member State 
concetnedr 

**17. Jnvita those Member States that have not responded to the 
Secretary-General's request pursuant to paragraph 10 of resolution 45/150 
to submit views concerning suitable approaches that will permit the 
Organization to respond to the requests of Member States for electoral 
assistance, to do so in order that the Secretary-General can include 
these views in his next report to the General Assembly; 

"18. BauesQ the Secretary-General to report to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the 
present resolution on the Orgauieation's experience in and 
recommendations for providing electoral assistance to Member States, on 
the detaile% gui%elines end terms of reference being Beveloped for United 
Nations electoral involvement and on the nature au% %isposition of the 
requests from bfember States under the item entitle% 'Human rights 
questions'.g* 

3. In introducing draft resolution A/C.3/46/L.bl/ltev.l, the representative 
of the Unite% States of America orally revise% it, as follows, 

(a) In the ninth preambular paragraph, the wor%s *', inclu%ing those in 
transition to democracy” were to be inserte% after the wor%s "are provi%ing to 
Member States" 

I... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 10 

(b) Operative paragraph 11, which haa read: 

Q1w the Secretary-General to allocate from within existing 
resources an8. as appropriate, a small number of staff and other 
resources to support the designated senior official in carrying out his 
or her functions", 

was to be replaced by the following text, reading: 

"peauestk the Secretary-General to allocate wheuevor appropriate, 
ana within existing resources, a small number of staff and other 
resources to support the designated sonior official in carrying out his 
or her functions*'. 

4. The Committee had before it a statement (A/C.3/46/L.69) submitted by the 
Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the 
General Assembly on the programme budget implications of the draft resolution 
(A/C.3/46/L.61/Rev.l). 

5. Subaequently, Chile and Paraguay joined in sponsoring the revised draft 
resolution. 

6. At the same meeting, the representative of Morocco orally proposed an 
amendment to the orally revised draft resolution, as follows: 

(a) The ninth preambular paragraph was to be replaced by the following 
text: 

8, potinu with amnreciatioq the aavisory services proviaea by the 
Centre for Human Rights, as well as the technical assistance that the 
Department of Technical Cooperation for Development of the Secretariat 
end the United Nations Development Programme are prodfling to Member 
Statea , zt their request, and inviting those boaies to continue an8 
intensify these efforts as requested"; 

(b) In operative paragrapn 18, the word *grequesting*g was to be ? lserted 
between the words lgassistance to" and "Member States?. 

7. Statements were made by the representatives of France, Cuba, sauai 
Arabia, Argentina, Colombia. the United States of America, Morocco and the 
Chairman of tbe Committee. 

8. At the 58th meeting, on 10 December, the representative of Cuba 
introaucea document WC.31461L.71, containing proposed amendments to ths 
revised &aft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.61/Rev.l), which read as follows: 

"1. In tbe seventh presmbular paragraph, delete the phrase (, in 
accordance with tbe will of its people,'. 

“2. After the seventb presmbuiar paragraph , insert the following two 
preambular paragraphst 

/... 



A/46/121/Add.l 
English 
page 11 

' lso recalling the principle enshrined in Article 2. 
paragraph I. of the Charter of the United Nations, which establishes 
that "nothing contained in the present Charter shall authorize the 
United Nations to intervene in matters which are essentially within 
the domestic jurisdiction of any State or shall require the Members 
to submit such matters to settlement under the present Charter'. 

, ecoanizinq tbat the holding of elections is a matter falling 
within the domestic jurisdiction of States,'. 

"3. In the first line of the eleventh preambular paragraph, replace the 
word "verification" by the word *assistance'. 

"4 l Add a new paragraph after the last preambular par&graph, reading: 

1 -a into account that most of the Member States that 
replied opposed the establishment of a new United Nations structure 
to verify election3 or provide electoral assistance as is recognioed 
in paragraph 60 of the Secretary-General's report,'. 

"5. In operative paragraph 1, delete the words 'with aooreciation' after 
the words 'Takes'. 

"6. In operative paragraph 5, delete the phrase *, in accordance with 
the will of their people,'. 

"7 . Replace operative paragraphs 9 to 16 by the following two paragraphs: 

'9. m&R the Secretary-General to prepare suggestions on 
the criteria that ought to be met in the consideration of requests 
from Member States for electoral assistance based on the opinions of 
Member States in this regard; 

'10. I-3 Member States to carry out informal consultations 
on the proposals presented by the Secretary-General in his report 
for the due consideration of the General A33embly at its 
forty-seventh session, under the coordination of the Chairman of the 
Third Committee.' 

9. At tbe same meeting, the representative of the United States of America 
made a statement and further orally reViSea the draft resolution, as follower 

(a) The ninth presmbular paragraph was revised to read: 

aoDrW'atio4 the advisory services end technical 
assistance provided by the Centre for Human Rights as well as the 
technical assistance provided by the Department of Technical Cooperation 
for Development of the Secretariat and the United Nations Development 
Programme to Borne Member States, including those in transition to 
democfacy, at *iGiGir Z8~t~8t. Ed iZ*VitiZg those bodies ta cantinue and 
intensify these efforts as requested"f 

I... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 12 

(b) In operative paragraph 7, the word "some" was inserted before the 
words "'Member Stater:"; 

(c) In operative paragraph 9, after the words "handling of requests" the 
words "of Member States organizing elections" were inserted; 

(d) Operative paragraph 12 was revised to read as follows: 

"12. Commends the Centre for Human Rights for the advisory services 
and technical assistance as well as the Department of Technical 
Cooperation for Development of the Secretariat and the United Nations 
Development Programme for the technical assistance that they have and are 
providing to requesting Member States, and requests that they collaborate 
closely with and inform the senior official designated by the 
Secretary-General of the assistance provided and activities undertaken by 
them in the area of electoral assistance." 

10. At the 59th meeting, on 10 December, the representative of Cuba made a 
statement, in the course of which he revised the amendments contained in 
document A/C.3/46/L.71, as follows: 

(a) The first amendment was to be deleted8 

(b) The fourth amendment was deleted and replaced with the following 
text : 

"patina that the establishment of a new Unitea Nations structure to 
verify elections or provide electoral assistance has not been proposed": 

(c) The fifth and sixth amendments were deleted. 

11. Statements were made by the representatives of Morocco and Australia. 

12. The representative of Cuba also spoke on a point of clarification. 

13. At the same meeting, the representative of Luxembourg moved, under 
rule 116 of the rules Of procedure of the General Assembly, that no action be 
taken on tbe amendments proposed by the representative of Cuba. 

14. The representative of Cuba spoke against the motion, while the 
representatives of El Salvador and Ukraine spoke in favour of the motion. 

15. Statements were made by the representatives of Cuba and Morocco on a 
point of order. 

/ . . . 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 13 

16. At the 881118 meeting, the Committee approved the motion by a recorded vote 
of 61 to 22, with 33 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

Aaainstr 

Abstafaigcrr 

Alban.ia, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, 
Bulgaria, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Costa 
Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, El Salvador, Estonia. 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, 
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall 
Islands, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Norway, Panama, 
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Republic of 
Korea, Romania, Singapore, Spain, Suriname, Swazilalnd, 
Sweden, Togo. Turkey, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America. 

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Burkina Faso, China, Cuba, 
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ghana, Irag, Jordan, 
Kenya, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libya0 Arab 
Jamshiriya. Mauritania, Namibia, Sudan, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, 
Yemen, Zimbabwe. 

Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, 
Brazil, Colombia, Cyprus, Dominica, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Lesotho. Liberia, 
Malaysia, Mali, Mexico. Nepal, Nicaregua, Nigeria. Pakistan, 
Peru, Philippines Saint Kitts and Nevis. Sri Lanka, 
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, 
Yugoslavia. 

11. The Cozuzittee then proceeded to hear statements by the representatives of 
Colombia, Panama, Uexico, Cuba, Algeria, Libyan Arab Jemahitiya, C&e 
d'fvoire, Malaysia, Pakistan and Indonesia in explanation of vote before the 
vote on draft resolution A/C.3/46/L.61/Rev.l, as orally revised. 

16. The representative of Australia indicated that he would join in 
sponsoring the revised draft resolution. 

19. The Committee was informed that Raiti should be omitted from the list of 
sponsors of the revised draft resolution. 

20. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.3/46/L.6l/Rev.l, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 115 to 3, with 

I... 



A/46/122/Ad&l 
English 
Page 14 

15 abstentions (see pate. 28, draft resolution I). The voting was as 
followsr u/ 

la: Albania. Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, 
Austria, Bahsmas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, 
Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botsvana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina 
Faso, Burundi, Csmeroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African 
Republic, Chile, Costa Rica, C&e d*Ivoiro. Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, 
El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, 
Israel, Italy, Jamaica. Japan, Jordan. Kuwait, Latvia, 
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malawi, Maldives, Kali, Malta, Marshall Islands, 
Mauritania, Mongolia, Moroccor Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, PO I.and, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saint Ritts and Nevis, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia. Turkey, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, 
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Apainst: Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Kenya. 

&bstaininqr Angola, China, Colombia, Ghsna, Indonesia, Iraq, Lao 
People's Democratic Republic, Malaysiii, Mexico, Philippines, 
Sudan, Uganda, Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe. 

21. Statements in expalnation of vote after the vote were made by the 
representatives of China, Japan. the Sudan, Germany, Sweden, the Philippines 
andEgypt. 

and renorts of snecial ranoorteura 

EE. Draft resolutions A/C.3/46/L.54 and Rev.1 

22. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Venevuela, on 
behalf of uaentina. Belaium. Bolivia.mil. Canada. Chile. Costa Rica, 
P < r 1 al a HOll 

tQ/ Subsequently, the representative of Qatar indicated that had he been 
present he would have voted in favour of the revised draft resolution. 

I... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 15 

Runaarv. Ireland Italv,& X the N8th8r15ndSs 
Ni caraaua. Norwav. Peru. PO&)&~&. Soaig, the mitea KC nadom of Great Britain 
gn ~Northerne~edS& f  5 o America. Uruouav. anuatu V aa 
V-a, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.64) entitled %unan 
rights in Haiti", which read as followsr 

" 8 General Assembly, 

**m by the principle5 emboaiea in the Charter of the United 
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Humsn Rights u./ and the 
International Covenants on Buman Rights, .&2/ 

I I  R-q that all Member States are required to promote and 
protect human rights and to comply with the obligations laid down in the 
various instruments in this fiela, 

"Takina note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1991/77 of 
6 March 1991 on the situation of human rights in Haiti, u/ 

II Deeolv concern84 at the grave events occurring in Haiti since 
29 September 1991, which abruptly and violently interrupted the 
democratic process in that country and have resulted in the violation of 
human rights ana the loss of human lives, 

"1. ReafPj its resolution 46/7 of 7.1 October 1991 concerning the 
situation of democracy and humsn rights in Haiti; 

“2. JLiaorouelv the perpetration of the seditious acts that 
led to the illegal replacement of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, with 
the consequent use of violence and military coercion and the subsequent 
violation of human rights in that countryt 

"3. pxvresses its arave (rollc~rll at the human rights violations 
committed by the illegal Goverament set up following the 
29 September 1991 coup in that country; 

"4. $&&RDS the acts of repression carried out by the illegal 
Government against the popular demonstrations held in response to the 
military coup, which have resulted in arbitrary detentions and murders: 

.&&I Resolution 217 A (III). 

u/ See resolution 2200 A (Xx), annex. 

a/ See pdficial RSSQ& of the ~~QE!@.E& 
1JnL2 (E/1991/22), chap. ii, sect. A. 

/... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 16 

"5. Exuresses its concern at the massive exodus of Haitian 
nationals who are leaving the country and urges that every effort bc made 
to ensure respect for their human rights and fundamental freedoms; 

"6. Exoresaes its aooreciatioq for the work done by the Qffice of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; 

"7. ReauestS the Commission on Human Rights at its forty-eighth 
session to examine the report of the independent expert &&9/ appointed by 
the Secretary-General to review the situation of human rights in Haiti, 
in the light of the events of 29 September 1991 and subsequent 
developmentsi 

"8. w Member States to support the mandates resulting from 
resolutions MRE/RES.1/91 of 2 October 1991 and MRE/RBS.2/91 of 
8 October 1991, adopted by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the 
countries members of the Organisation of American States. .W 

23. Subsequently, Benin. Finland. Jaoan. Panama. Samoa and Sweden joined in 
sponsoring the draft resolution. 

24. At the 57th meeting, on 9 December. the representative of Venezuela, on 
behalf of &raentina. Belsium. Benin. Bolivia. Brazil. Canada. Chile. Cost& 
Rica. Denmark. Rcuador. El Salvador. Finland. France. Germanv, Greecea 
Guatem&a. Haiti. Honduras. Eunaarv. Ireland. Italv. Jamaica, JaDan. 
Luxembaura. Mexico< the Netherlands. Nicaraoua. Norwav. Panama. Paraauavc 
P eru. in W the United Kinadom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland. Uruauav. Vanuatu and Venexue& introduced a 
revised draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.64/Bev.l) entitled "Human rights in 
Haiti". Subsequently, Barbado joined in sponsoring the revised draft 
resolution. 

25. At the 58th meeting, on 10 December, the Committee aUopted draft 
resolution A/C.3/46/L.64/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 28, draft 
resolution II). 

26. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the 
United States of America made a statement. 

27. On the proposal of the Chairman, the Committee decided to recommend to 
the General Assembly tbat it take note of the reports considere& under the 
item entitled "Human rights questions" and contained in documents A/46/46, 
A/46/473, A/46/616 and Corr.1, A/46/401 and A/46/446 (see para. 29). 

J&g/ E/CN.4/1991/33 and Ad&l. 

u/ S/23109, annex and A/46/550-S/23127, annex. 

I... 



A/46/721/Add.l 

English 

page 17 

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE 

28. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Ephitectivenesa Drincide of Deriodic 
pna aenuine elections 

The General Assembl& 

pecallinq its resolutions 44/146 of 15 December 1989 and 4W156 of 
16 December 1990, as well as Commission on Human Rights resolution 1029/51 of 
I March 1909. &@/ 

Jiavina considere@ the report of tbe Secretary-General dn enhancing the 
effectiveness of the principle of periodic ana genuine elections, 171 

m of its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to 
develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of 
equal rights and self-determination of peoples and to promote and encourage 
respect for human rights ana fundamental freedoms for all, 

3-q the Universtil Declaration of Human Rights, &&/ which provides 
that everyone has the right to take part in the government of his or her 
country, airectly or through freely chosen representatives, that everyone has 
the right of equal access to public service in his or her country, that the 
will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government and that 
this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be 
by universal and equal suffrage and shall be hela by secret vote or by 
equivalent free voting procedures, 

hrotinq that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights rp/ 
provides that every citizen shall have the right atuS the opportunity, without 
distinction of any kin& such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, 
political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or 
other status, to take part in the conduct of public affairs, directly or 

hQ/ Off 1 3 until. 1969, 
Bunulement No..2 (E/1989/20), chep. II, sect. A. 

u/ A/46/609 aad Add.1 and 2. 

MB/ Reeiolutioa 217 A (III). 

la/ 
LL- See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 

I... 



A/46/12l/hdd.l 
English 
Page 18 

through freely chosen repreoeutatives, to vote and to be elected at genuine 
periodic elections which shall be by universal an4 equal suffrage and shall be 
held by secret ballot, guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the 
electors, and to have access , on general terms of equality, to public service 
in his or her country. 

Condemning the system of apartheid an8 any other denial or abridgement of 
the right to vote on the grounds of race, colour, sex, language, religion. 
political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or 
other status, 

Pecallinq that, under the Charter, all States enjoy sovereign equality 
and that each State, in accordance with the wilS of its people, has the right 
freely to choose ana develop its political, social, economic and cultural 
systems, 

Pecoanizing that there is no single political system or electoral method 
that is equally suited to all nations and their people and that the efforts of 
the international community to enhance the effectiveness of the principle of 
periodic and genuine elections should not call into question each State's 
sovereign right, in accordance with the will of its people, freely to choose 
ana develop Lts political, social. economic and cultural systems, whether or 
not they conform to the preferences of other States, 

Botina with anDreciatiog the advisory services end technical assistance 
proviaea by the Centre for Bumen Bights as well as thd technical assistance 
provided by the Department of Technical Cooperation for Development of the 
Secretariat and the United Nations Development Programme to some Member 
States, inClUaiBg those in transition to aemocracy, at their request, ana 
inviting those bodies to continue and intensify these efforts as requested, 

rakina note of the electoral assistance proviaea to Wimber States at 
their request by the Organization, 

bffirming that electoral verification by the United Nations should remain 
an exceptional activity of the Organization to be undertaken in well-define& 
circumstances, *er alb, primarily in situations with a clear international 
&men&on, 

-a no& of the criteria contained in paragraph 79 of the 
Secretary-General's report 2.W which ought to be met before agreeing to 
requests for electoral verification, 

1. Ta P~QG of the report of the Secratary-General 
on enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of perioaic ana genuine 
elections; 

mLp/ A/46/609 ana Corr.1. 

I... 



A/46/721/Add.l 
English 
Page 19 

2. Underscore?% the significence of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which 
establish that the authority to govern shall be based on the will of the 
people, as expressed in periodic end genuine electionst 

3. Stresses its convictioq that periodic and genuine elections are a 
necessary and indispensable element of sustained efforts to protect the rights 
and interests of the governed and that, as a'matter of practical experience, 
the right of everyone to take part in the government of his or her country is 
a crucial factor in the effective enjoyment by all of a wide range of other 
human rights and fundamental freedoms, embracing political, economic, social 
and cultural rights: 

4. Declarea that determining the will of the people requires an 
electoral process that provides an equal opportunity for all citizens to 
become candidates and put forward their politicai views, individually and in 
cooperation with others, as provided in national. constitutions and laws; 

5. Underscorea the duty of each Member State, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, to respect the decisions 
taken by other States, in accordance with the will of their people, in freely 
choosing and develop .g their electoral institutionst 

6. Reaffirma that apartheid must be abolished, that the systematic 
denial or abridgement of the right to vote on the grounds of race or colour is 
a gross violation of human rights and an affront to the conscience and dignity 
of mankind, and that the right to participate in a political system based on 
common and equal citizenship and universal franchise is essential for the 
exercise of the principle of periodic and genuine elections, 

7. Affirm& the value of the electoral assistance that the United 
Nations has provided at the request of some Member States, in the context of 
full respect for their sovereignty8 

8. B&&&~QR that the international community should continue to give 
serious consideration to ways in which the United Nations can respond to the 
requests of Member States as they seek to promote and strengthen their 
electoral institutions -a procedures; 

9. Jw¶orses the Secretary-General's view that he should designate a 
senior official in the Offices of the Secretary-Genera? to act as focal point, 
in addition to existing duties 8na in order to ensure consistency in the 
handling of requests of Member States organiring elections, who would assist 
the Secretary-General to coordinate id consider request8 for electoral 
verification and to channel requests for electoral assistance to the 
appropriate office or programme, to ensure careful consideration of request8 
for electoral verification, to build on experience gained to develop an 
institutional memory, to develop ena maintain a roster of international 
experts who could provide technical assistance as well as assist in the 
verification of electoral processes and to maintain contact with regional and 

I... 



A/46/721/AdB.l 
English 
Page 20 

other intergovernmental organisations to ensure appropriate working 
arrangements with them ana the avoidance of duplication of efforts, ana 
requests the Secretary-General to designate such an official to take on these 
tasks; 

10. Determine@ that the designation of the senior official would neither 
pre-empt nor supersede ongoing arrangements regarding electoral assistance nor 
prejudice the operational arrangements for missions that the Organisation may 
aeciae to unaertaket 

11. mauesta the Secretary-General to allocate whenever appropriate, and 
within existing resources, a small number of staff and other resources to 
support the designated senior official in carrying out his or her functions: 

12. Commenda the Centre for Human Rights for the advisory services and 
technical assistance as well ds the Department of Technical Cooperation for 
Development of the Secretariat and the United Nations Development Programme 
for the technical assistance that they have and are providing to requesting 
Member States, and requests that they collaborate closely with ancl inform the 
senior official designated by the Secretary-General of the assistance provided 
and activities undertaken by them in the area of electoral assistance; 

13. Recruest@ the Secretary-General to notify the competent organ of the 
Unitoa Nations upon receipt of official requests by a Member State for 
electoral verification and, upon the direction of that organ, to provide 
appropriate assistance; 

14. &2so tea- the Secretary-General to establish, in accordance with 
United Nations financial regulations, a voluntary trust fund for cases where 
the requesting Member State is unable to finance, in whole or in part, the 
electoral verification mission and to propose guidelines for disbursements 
therefrom3 

16. Affirns the effectiveness of ana the need for coordination with 
intergovernmental organisations, including regional organisations having 
international electoral assistance experience; 

16. mommy the efforts of non-governmental orgenirations that have 
proviaed electoral assistance at the request of the Member State concerneat 

17. Invites those Member States which have not responaea to the 
Secretary-General's requeet in paragraph 10 of its resolution 45/lJO to submit 
views concerning suitable approaches that will permit the Organisation to 
respond to the requests of Member States for electoral assistance, to a0 SO in 
order that the Secretary-General can include these views in his next report to 
the General Assembly; 

18. BeaueWe the Secretary-General to report to the General Asse&ly,at 
its forty-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution, on 
the ~qSZiZStiOB'S experience in aa recommendations for providing electoral 

/ . . . 



A/46/121.‘Add.l 

English 
Page 21 

assistance to requesting Member States, on the aetailea guidelines aua terms 
of reference being developed for United Nations electoral involvement and on 
the nature and disposition of the requests from Member States, under the item 
entitled "Human rights questions**. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

R&man riahts in Haiti 

m General Assembly, 

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights .&&B/ and the International Covenants 
on Human Rights, ue/ 

Reaffirming that all Member States are required to promote and protect 
human rights and to comply with the obligations laid down in the various 
instruments in this field, 

Takina note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1991/77 of 
6 March 1991 on tbe situation of human rights in Haiti, a/ 

DeeDlV concerned at the grave events OCCUrring in Haiti Since 
29 September 1991, which abruptly and violently interrupted the democratic 
process in that country and have resulted in the violation of human rights and 
the loss of human lives, 

Concerned also at the current mass exodus of Haitian nationals leaving 
the country because of tbe deteriorating political and economic situation 
since 29 September 1991, 

Rooting the unanimous declaration on Haiti adopted by the Permanent 
Council of the Organisation of American States on 22 November 1991, and the 
subsequent dispatch by the Inter-American Commission on Ruman Rights of an 
investigating team to Haiti on 4 December 1991, 

1. Reaffim its resolution 46/7 of 11 October 1991 concerning the 
situation of democracy ana human rights in Haitit 

2. Stronalv condemn6 the overthrow of the constitutionally elected 
President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, and the use of violence and military 
coercion and the subsequent violation of human rights in that country; 

3. Condemns also the flagrant human rights violations committed under 
tbe illegal Government set up following the coup of 29 September 1991, 

z/ SC+ Official Becards of the lZ+!m+!mia nnA g+~!nl ~m.nni~, laal, 

wlement N . 2 (E/1991/22), chap. II, sect. A. t) 

/ . . . 



A/46/721/A&&l 
"nglieh 
2r;ge 22 

particularly summary executions , arbitrary arrests and detentions. torture, 
searches without warrant. rape. ransacking of private an& public buildings, 
restrictions on the freedoms of movement, expression, assembly and association 
and the repression of popular demonstrations calling for the return of 
President Jean-Bortrand Aristidet 

4. ms its apurw to the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees &Jr the work it is doing in favour of the Haitian 
nationals fleeing the-country and invites Member States to continue giving 
financial and material support for these efforts8 

5. Calls the attentiQg of the international community to the fate of 
the Haitian nationals who are fleeing the country and requests its support for 
the efforts undertaken to assist tbemt 

6. i@hf@~ the Commission on Human Bight3 at its forty-eighth session 
to consider the report of the inaependent expert appointed by the 
Secretary-General to review the situation of human rights in H.riti, and 
invites the independent expert to submit an updated report to the Commission 
in the light of the events of 29 September 1991 and subsequent developments. 

* * * 

29. The Third Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption 
of the following draft decision: 

&ports considered under the item entitled *%unag 
tiahtsc 

The General Assembly takes note of the following documenL,oa 

(a) Report of the Committee against Torture; 221 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on torture and inhuman treatment of 
children in detention in South Africa1 231 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on enhancing the effectiveness of 
the principle of periodic and genuine elections; &I/ 

tne General Agaemblv. FooPtv-sigth Session , 

a/ A/46/473. 

J&l A/46/616 and Corr.1. 

/ . . . 



A/46/721/ABd.l 

English 
Page 23 

(a) Note by'the Secretary-General transmitting the preliminary report on 
the situation of human rights in South Africa prepared by the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of Experts on Southern Africa; a/ 

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on the situation of human rights in 
southern Lebanon. 291 

w A/h6/401. 

a/ A/46/446. 


