







































UNITED 
NATIONS 

-.- -- 

General Assembly Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/46/645/Add.B 

13 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item II (g) 

DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC COOPERATION: 
HUMAN SETTLEMENTS 

ReDOrt of the Second Committee (Part IX) 

RaDDorteus: Mr. Martin RAKOTONAIVO (Madagascar) 

I. IR'TRODUCTION 

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on item II (see A/46/645, 
para. 2). Action to be taken on sub-item (g) was considered at the 51st and 
58th meetings, on 26 November and 11 December 1991. An account of the 
Committee's consideration of the sub-item is contained in the relevant summary 
records (A/C.2/46/SR.51-and 58). 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/46/L.58 

2. At the 51st meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Pakistan 
introduced a draft resolution (AK.21461L.58) entitled "Living conditions of 
the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory", on behalf of , . 
Alaeria.gyDBahrain.. Iraa. Jordan. Lebanon. Malaysia, Maurm 
Pakistan, Tunisia and &if&r. Subsequently, QR&I and the united Arab Emirate 
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

3. A statement on the programme budget implications of draft resolution 
A/C.2/45/L.58, submitted by the Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153 
of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, was circulated in document 
A/C.2/46/L.100. 

4. At the 58th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, 
Mr. Ioan Barac (Romania), informed the Committee of the results of the 
informal consultations held on the draft resolution. 

91-49362 07441 03) / . . . 



A/46/645/Add.8 
English 
Page 2 

5. The representative of Pakistan, speaking on behalf of the sponsors. 
orally revised the draft resolution as follows: 

(a) In operative paragraph 6, the words "pending the exercise of their 
self-determination" were inserted before the words "to plan for”: and the 
words "during the transitional period between occupation and 
self-determination" were deleted from the end of the paragraph; 

(b) In operative paragraph I, the words "forty-seventh session" were 
replaced by the words "forty-eighth session". 

6. Pollowing a statement made by the representative of the Netherlands on 
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are also members Of 
the European Community, the representative of Pakistan agreed that the first 
revision to operative paragraph 6 should read "pending the exercise of their 
right to self-determination". 

7. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the 
representatives of Israel and the United States of America (see 
A/C.2/46/SR.66). 

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.2/46/L.58, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 133 to 2, with 
4 abstentions (see para. 17, draft resolution I). The voting was as 
followsr A/ 

-favourr Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape 
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colon&ia, 
Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d'lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Csechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, 
Fiji, Finland, Prance, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Biasau, Guyana, riaiti, Honduras, 
Hungary, Iceland. India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jsmaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, 
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, 
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, 
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, 

11 The delegations of Chile and the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea subsequently indicated that, had they been present at the time of the 
voting, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution. 

I.. . 



A/46/645/Add. 8 

English 
Page 3 

Republic of Korea, Romailia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukraine, United Arab Bmirates, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay, Venezuela. Viet Nam. Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Aaainst: Israel, United States of America. 

waining: Belarus, Canada, Estonia, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics. 

9. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Canada and Hungary (also on behalf of 
Czechoslovakia and Poland) (see AK.21461SR.50). 

B. commendations co@ained in the reuort of the Commission 
gn Human Settlements 

1. mobal Strate gy for Shelter to the ma 

10. In paragraph 12 of resolution 13/l entitled "Global Strategy for Shelter 
to the Year 2000". the Commission on Human Settlements recommended to the 
General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution. 

11. At the 58th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, 
Mr. Ioan Barac (Romania), informed the Committee of the results of informal 
consultations held on the draft resolution. 

12. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution without a 
vote (see para. 17, draft resolution II). 

2. Ugited Nations on w Set- 

13. In paragraph 1 of resolution 1312 entitled "United Nations Conference on 
Human Settlements", the Commission on Euman Settlements recommended to the 
General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution. 

14. At the 58th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, 
Mr. Ioan Barac (Romania), informed the Committee of the results of informal 
consultations held on the draft resolution. 

15. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution without a 
vote (see para. 17, draft resolution III). 



A146164WAdd.0 
English 
Page 4 

of the Commission on Human Settlements on the work 
nf its th- session 

16. At the 50th maeting, on 11 December, upon the proposal of the Chairman 
and following statements by the reprerentative of France and the Secretary of 
the Conunittee, the Committee decided to reconnnand to the General Assembly that 
it take note of the report of the Connnission for Human Settlements on the work 
of its thirteenth session (pars. 18). 

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF TRR SECOND COMMITTEE 

11. The Second Conunittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft resolutions: 

DRAPT RESOLUTION I 

Wvina -2.ad.W iof i 
Palestinian territory 

m the Vancouver Declaration on Human Settlements, 1976, 2/ and 
the relevant recommendations for national action adopted by Habitat: United 
Nation8 Conference on Ruman Settlements, a/ 

s its resolution 441174 of 19 December 1909. 

-into account the Antifad& of the Palestinian people against the 
Israeli occupation, including it8 economic and social policies and practices, 

v by the continuation of the Israeli settlement policies in 
the Palestinian territory occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, 
which have been declared illegal and a major obstacle to peace, 

1. Takee of 
Secretary-Generals &/ 

the report annexed to the note by the 

? w for the inunediate ceesation of the Israeli practices against 
the Palertinian people, particularly in the economic and social fieldsr 

21 Report of wtr United N4tinep ConfaEagCe on I&~r19n Seta I 
Vancouver. 31 Mav-11 Jlygp 1976 (United Nations publication, Sales 

'No. E.76.IV.7), chap. I. 

ii/ Ibid., chap. II. 

41 A/46/262-E/1991/95. 

I... 



A/46/645/Add.6 
English 
Page 5 

3. m its alarm at the deterioration, as a result of the Israeli 
occupation, in the living conditions of the Palestinian peoplti in the 
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967: 

4. nffirma that the Israeli occupation is contradictory to the basic. 
requirements for the social and economic development of the Palestinian people 
in the occupied Palestinian territory; 

5. R&RI&R the Israeli plans and actions intended to change the 
demographic composition of the occupied Palestinian territory, in particular 
the increase and expansion of the Israeli settlements; 

6. m the Secretary-General to consider ways and means of 
improving the living conditions of the Palestinian people in the occupied 
Palestinian territory and, pending the exercise of their right to 
self-determination, to plan for concerted economic and social actions by the 
United Nations syatemt 

7. BLap reaueefa the Secretary-General to report to General Assembly at 
its forty-eighth session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the 
progress made in the implementation of the present resolution. 

DRAFI RESOLUTION II 

Elobal Stratew for Shelter to the Year 2QQQ 

&G&.&Q its resolution 43/161 of 20 December 1988, in which it 
designated the Commission on Human Settlements as the intergovernmental body 
for coordinating, evaluating and monitoring the Global Strategy for Shelter to 
the Year 2000, 

s its resolution 441113 of 19 December 1989, in which it 
considered the First Report of the Conmission on Ruman Settlements on the 
implementation of the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000, submitted 
pursuant to paragraph 7 of resolution 431161, 

v that the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000 
provider a framework for Governments to facilitate adequate shelter for all 
and that, through shelter and services, the Strategy also addresses the 
allevlation of poverty, the improvement of health, the participation of women, 
the improvement of the living environment of the people and the promotion of 
sustainable development, 

wzinq that the operational focus for promoting the objective of 
facilitating shelter for all is action at the national level within the 
framework of national shelter strategies which are integrated with 
macroeconomic policies for optimum utilisation of natural and human resources 
and based on standards that are nationally appropriate and socially acceptable, 

/... 



W4W64WAdd.0 
English 
Page 6 

v  that the adoption of enabling shelter strategies can 
mobilise resources on a sustainable basis and facilitate access to available 
resources by all population groups, 

w that such mobilisation of national resources through enabling 
shelter strategies could partially alleviate economic constraints that affect 
many countries, 

considerea the second report of the Commission on Human 
Settlements on the implementation of the Global Strategy for Shelter to the 
Year 2000, s/ 

Noting that a number of Governments have initiated or 
reformulated national shelter strategies, based on the principles of enabling 
all actors in the shelter sector, and that many other Governments have 
initiated action on particular components of a national shelter strategy, 

-so with satrefactLQg the support given to the implementation of 
the Strategy by donor Governments, international bodies, and intergovernmental 
and non-governmental organisations, 

m of the importance of maintaining the momentum already generated 
at the national and international levels for the implementation of the 
Strategy, 

1. Commenti Governments which are revising, consolidating, formulating 
or implementing their national shelter strategies based on the enabling 
principles of the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000; 

2. m those Governments which have not already initiated action 
towards formulation of a national shelter strategy baaed on the enabling 
principles or have taken only tentative ateps so far to increase their efforts 
using the Guidelines for Uational Action contained in the Strategy involving 
governmental, private sector and non-governmental actor8 in the shelter 
sector, assuring the participation of men and women and paying special 
attention to gender issues in the formulation, implementation and monitoring 
of national shelter strategies in order to achieve the objective of 
facilitating shelter for all by the year 2000; 

3. m that all Governments adopt a cost-effective system for 
monitoring progress of the national shelter strategy and adopt as far as is 
feasible guidelines prepared by the Executive Director of the United Nations 
Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat); 

4. Further urael Governments to integrate fully the environmental 
dimension in the formulation and implementation of national shelter strategies 
following, for instance, the synopsis of environmental check points, contained 

51 A/46/0/Add.l. 

/... 



A/16/645/Add.0 
English 
Page I 

in the report of the Executive Director on the significance of human 
settlements and the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2999 to the 
concept of sustainable developmentt 6/ 

5. &Y&W Governments to make voluntary contributions to the United 
Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, in order to facilitate the 
implementation of the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000: 

6. S.!~~QS the organisations of the United Nations system, and 
particularly the United Nations Development Progr-, and other multilateral 
and bilateral agencies to provide increased financial and other support to 
Governments for the implementation of the Strategy's Plan of Action8 

7. &&I&S the Plan of Action for 19924993 for the implementation of 
the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000 and urges all Governments. 
relevant United Nations organisations, intergovernmental and non-governmental 
organisations to prepare and implement their specific plans of action. 

DRAFI RESOLUTION III 

&G&&&g the reconnnendations of Habitat: the United Nations Conference 
on Human Settlementa, held at Vancouver in 1976, which form the basis for 
national action and international cooperation in the field of human 

. m it6 resolution 32/162 of 19 December 1977 in which it 88t 
up the Commission On HUman s8ttl8Sl8ntS and the United Nations Centre for Human 
Settlement8 (Habitat) in order to, maliar achieve greater coher8nC8 and 
effectiveness in human settl8meatr activitie8 within the United Nations system, 

&$,.&~g with appreciation that the Commission on Human Settlements and the 
United Nations Centre for Human Settlements, in line with the objectives and 
the responsibilities 68t out in G8neral Assembly resolution 321162, have 
succeeded in placing human asttlements higher on the agenda for national 
action and international cooperation and in proiaoting increased understanding 
on the links between people, rettlem8nts, environment and development, 

u that the successive work programmes of the United Nations 
Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) hav8 addressed all the recommendations 
of Habitat: United Nations Conference on Human Settlem8nts and, in addition, 
have provided specific guidance in various fields of human settlements, such 

PI HS/C/13/6, -8X I. 

I... 



M4W64WAdd.0 
English 
page 8 

as shelter, urban management, the role of women, training, community 
participation, finance, building materials, environment and sustainable 
development, 

m that, since the establishment of the Commission and 
of tbe Centre, Governmenta have achieved substantial advances in planning, 
development and management of human settlements, thus improving living 
conditions of a large number of the population, 

v that the bilateral and multilateral agencies and 
institutions have gradually increased their emphasis and level of technical 
and other assistance in tbe firrld of human settlements, 

v that non-governmental and community-based organisations and 
tire private sector have increased their contributiona towards improving living 
conditions and building new shelter and settlements, 

&9gga&& that programnes such as the International Year of Shelter for 
the Homeless observed in 1987 and the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 
2000, currently under implementation, provide the framework for focusing on 
the critical issue of shelter and services, and have succeeded in 
substantially increasing awareness and in placing the provision of shelter and 
services in the broader coatert of social and economic development, 

m that, in many developing countries the achievements 
in terms of policies, programmes and projects at the national level in the 
field of human settlement8 have not been sufficient to arrest or reverse the 
deterioration in the living conditions of their population, both in the urban 
and rural areas, 

m that past experience a8 well a& current trends and 
developments and projections in human settlements and related fields of 
poverty, population, environment and development make it clear that there is a 
need for an in-depth review and assessment of the strategies that have been 
put in place. 

m that proper planning, development and management of human 
settlements will lead to economic and social progress and thereby alleviate 
poverty and promote development which is environmantally sound and austainable 
in the long run. 

m that a world-wide conference with broad, multidisciplinary and 
high-level participation can provide a suitable forum for considering the 
current situation in the planning, development and management of human 
settlements within the context of the prevailing and expected social, economic 
and environmental COntaxtS. 

w-i= that such a conference should, &&er alia : 

(a) Review trends in policies and programmes undertaken by countries and 
international organizations to implement the recommendations of Habitat: 

/... 



A/46/645/Add.0 

English 
Page 9 

United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, held in Vancouver, Canada in 
1976: 

(b) Conduct a mid-term review of the implementation of the Global 
Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000 and, if necessary, make reconxn8ndations 
which would ensur8 the realixation of the objectives of the Strategy by the 
Year 2000: 

(c) In the light of the experience gained review and determine the 
substantive role and contribution of the human settlemants sector in the light 
of the results of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development: 

(d) Review trends in economic and social development as they affect 
planning and development of human settlements an& make recommendations for 
future action at national and international levels, 

Rearina in mind its resolution 40/243 of 18 December 1965 on the pattern 
of conf erencea, 

1. Decides to consider at its forty-seventh session the question of 
convening, possibly in 1997, a United Nations conference on human settlements 
(Habitat II) with the view to taking a d8CiSiOn at that session on the 
objectives, content, scope, and timing of such a conference and the modalities 
and financial implications of holding the conference; 

2. Reauests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Executive 
Director of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Rabitat), to 
prepare a report (in (a) the Obj8CtiVSS. content and scope of such a 
conference; and (b) preparations and other modalities for the conference; and 
to include a statement on the financial implications of the preparations for 
and convening of the Conference; 

3. peaueis~ the Secretary-General to submit the report to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh Session. 

* * l 

18. The Second COsxSitt88 also recommends to the General &S8mb1y the adoption 
of the following draft decision: 

&vort of the Co~&rsiononBuman.l9Rl9&R on the work 
w thirteenth 

The General Assembly takes note Of the report of the Commission on Human 
Settlements on the work Of its thirteenth session. z/ 

r/ To be issued as , 
*Sess ion uvvlement N 


