







































General Assembly Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/46/645/A&3.2 

16 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item II (a) 

DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC COOPERATION: 
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT 

eDo t o t e Second Committee (Pa t I R r fh r I I)* 

RaDm : Mr. Martin RAEOTONAIVO (Madagascar) 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on item 77 (see A/46/645, 
para. 2). Action to be taken on sub-item (a) we considered at the 4lst. 
45th. 51rt, 55th and 58th meetings, on 13, 19, 26 November and 4 and 
11 December. An account of the Committee's consideration of the sub-item is 
contained in the relevant ewmnary record (A/C.2/46/SR.41, 45, 51, 55 and 58). 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

A. Draft reew A/C.2/4PLk32 

2. At the 41et meeting, on 13 November 1991, the representative of w, on 
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are also members of 
the Group of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/46/L.22) entitled 
"Strengthening international organisations in the area of multilateral trade". 

3. At the 51et meeting, on 26 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, 
Mr. Bozorgmehr Ziaran (Islamic Republic of Iran), informed the Conmnittee of 
the results of the informal consultations which had been held on the draft 
resolution. 

* The report of the Committee on this item will be issued in twelve 
parts (see also A/46/645 and Add.l-11). 

91-4.9405 0749P (E) /... 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 2 

4. The Cosnnittse was informed that the draft resolution contained no 
programme budget implications. 

5. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/46/L.22 
without a vote (see para. 40, draft resolution I). 

5. Draft resolutions A/C.2/46/L.52 and L.95 

6. At the 45th meeting, on 19 November, the representative of G&xl& on 
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are ah0 members of 
the Group of 11, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/46/L.52) entitled 
"Environment and international trade", which read as followS: 

II &calling its resolution 45/210 of 21 December 1990 on environment 
and international trade, 

"Welcoming Trade and Development Board resolution 393 (XXXVIII) of 
4 October 1991 on the contribution of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development, within its mandate, to sustainable development, in 

. which the Board, ipter al- reaffirmed the importance of an integrated 
perspective of environment Ld development in order to tackle 
successfully the root causes of poverty and environmental degradation and 
achieve the objective of sustainable development in all countries, 

"1. Welcomea the efforts of the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and Development to increasingly integrate the concept of sustainable 
development in its ongoing work, and encourages the Secretary-General of 
the Conference to pursue that process; 

"2 . m the importance of the contribution of the United 
Wations Conference on Trade and Development, within its mandate, to the 
preparatory process for tire United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development and the follow-up to the Conference and welcomes the 
collaboration between the two bodies; 

"3. B the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development to take the necessary action to pursue and 
expedite the studies and other work requented in paragraph 7 of Trade and 
Development Board resolution 393 (XXXVIII), 80 that they may contribute 
effectively to the preparatory process for the United Nations Conference 
on Environment and Development and its follow-up." 

7. At the same meeting, the representative of Ghana, orally revised the 
draft resolution, as follows: 

(a) In the second preambular paragraph, the word "poverty" was replaced 
by %nderdevelopment"~ 

/ *.* 



A/46/645/Add.Z 
English 
Page 3 

(b) In operative paragraph 1, the word "Conference" was replaced by 
"United Nations Conference on Trade and Development"; 

Cc) In operative paragraph 3, the words "in addition" were inserted 
between the words “may” and "contribute". 

8. At its 55th meeting, on 4 December, the Committee had before it a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/46/L.95) submitted by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, 
Mr. Bozorgmehr Z&ran (Islamic Republic of Iran), on the basis of informal 
consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/46/L.52. 

9. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution contained no 
programme budget implications. 

10. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution AK.21461L.95 
without a vote (see para. 40, draft resolution II). 

11. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution AK.21461L.95, draft 
resolution A1C.21461L.52 was withdrawn by its sponsors. 

C. Draft resolutions AX.21461L.53 and L.96 

12. At the 45th meeting, on 19 November, the representative of Q&&R, on 
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are also members of 
the Group of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A1C.21461L.53) entitled "Trade 
and Development Board", which read as follows: 

"The General Assemblv, 

II Recalling its resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964, as 
amended, I/ on the establishment of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development, the Final Act adopted by the Conference at its 
seventh session, held at Geneva from 9 July to 3 August 1987, 21 and the 
Declaration on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade ana Development, contained in Trade and Development 
Board resolution 376 (XXXVI) of 13 October 1909, 21 as endorsed by the 
General Assembly in resolution 44119 of 14 November 1989, 

11 See resolutions 2904 (XXVII), 3112 A and B and 34/3. 

21 See proceedinas of the United Nations Confuence on Trade w 
Develonment. Seventh Session, vol. I. Renort and Annexe (United Nations 
publication, Sales No. E.88.II.D.l), part one, sect. A.l. 

a/ Qfficial Records of the General Assemblv. Portv-fourth Sespipg I 
Sunnlement No. 15 (A/44/15), vol. II, sect. 1I.A. 

/ . . . 



A/4b/b45/Add.2 
Rnglish 
Page 4 

ita resolution 451203 of 21 December 1990 on the 
report of the Trade and Development Board, 

**e that the eighth session of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, to be held in Colombia in 1992, 
provides, with its development-oriented agenda, a timely opportunity to 
advance the dialogue on major development issues, taking into account the 
global political, econcmic and technological changes of the recent past, 

QBB&&~ Trade and Development Board resolution 396 (XXX'VIII) of 
4 October 1991 on debt and development problems of developing 
countries 41 a8 part of the continuing contribution of the Board to the 
search for a durable solution to the problem of the external indebtedness 
of developing countries, as well as to the substantive preparations for 
tbe eighth se8sion of the Conference, 

that the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade 
negotiations cannot be concluded without a substantial and balanced 
outcome in all areas involved, including areas of particular importance 
to developing countries, 

"&.Q$,& that the Trade DeveloDment, 51 constitutes 
a valuable contribution to the debate on the interdependence of the 
problem8 of trade, development finance and the international monetary 
system, as well as to the understanding of the issues examined within the 
Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, 

"1. v  of the report of the Trade and Development Board on 
the second part of its thirty-seventh session and the first part of its 
thirty-eighth session, a/ and urges all member States to give effect to 
the provisions of the resolutions and decisions adopted by the Board; 

“2. - the contribution made by the Trade and 
Development Board to the understanding of global interdependence, in 
particular crarong key sectors concerning trade flows in goods and services 
and dwelopnents in the areas of money, finance, debt, commodities and 
technology, as well as among national economias and economic actors: 

“3. m the need for all countries to fulfil their 
responsibilities in strengthening the rules and disciplines of the 
multilateral trading system for the benefit of all countries and, to this 

%J Ibid&r Bon. SuDDlSment No. L5. (A/46/15), vol. II, 
sect. I1.A. 

51 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.91.11.D.15. 

. 
Officralds of the General Assemblv, Portv-sixth Se88 ion, 

(A/46/15), ~01s. I and II. 

/ . . . 



A/46/645/Add.2 

English 
Page 5 

end, urges all participants in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade 
negotiations to adopt a constructive and comprehensive approach thereto 
in order to achieve a successful and balanced outcome in accordance with 
the Ministerial Declaration on tbe Uruguay Round; z/ 

"4. Reiterates its invitation to the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development, at its eighth session, to assess the outcome of 
the Uruguay Round, in particular in areas of interest or concern to 
developing countries; 

"5. Welcomes Trade and Development Roard resolution 394 (XIGGJIII) 
of 4 October 1991 41 on economic cooperation among developing countries 
and problems of trade and trade financing as a further concrete step in 
the implementation of the Caracas Prograrmne of Action, a/ stresses the 
need for continued support by the secretariat of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development to the process of economic 
cooperation among developing countries and invites the United Nations 
Development Programme and other funding institutions to provide financial 
support to this process: 

"6. Also_velcombs the progress achieved so far in the substantive 
preparations for the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development; 

“7. Stresset? the crucial importance of the eighth session of the 
Conference in advancing the development dialogue and in giving new 
impetus to multilateral economic cooperation and affirms the need to 
achieve at that session a positive action-oriented outcome in the 
interrelated areas of trade, money, finance, resources for development, 
technology, commodities and services which will be instrumental to the 
revitaliaation of the development process of the developing countries, 
will strengthen the work of the Conference in national and international 
policy-making and will give life to the coxaaitaents and policies 
contained in the Declaration on Intoroational Economic Cooperation, in 
particular the Revitalioation of Economic Growth and Development of the 
Developing Countries." p/ 

13. At its 55th meeting on 4 December, the Cosuaittee had before it a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/46/L.96) submitted by the Vice-Chairman of the Conxnittee, 
Mr. Bosorgmehr Ziaran (Islamic Republic of Iran), on the basis of informal 
consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/46/L.53. 

21 See GXZ, Pocus New No. 4& October 1966. 

w A/36/333 and Corr.1. annex. 

91 Resolution S-16/.", annex. 

/. . . 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 6 

14. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution contained no 
programme budget implications. 

15. At the same meeting, the Cosanittee adopted draft resolution 11C.21461L.96 
without a vote (see pars. 40, draft resolution III). 

16. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A1C.21461L.96, draft 
resolution A/C.2/46/L.53 was withdrawn by its sponsors. 

D. Draft resolution A/C.2/46/L.U 

17. At the 45th meeting. on 19 November, the representative of Ehnaa. On 
behalf of the States Members of the United Rations that are also members of 
the Group of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/46/L.55) entitled 
"Bconomic measures ao a means of political and economic coercion against 
developing countries". 

18. At the 56th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, 
Mr. Bosorgmebr Ziaran (Islamic Republic of Iran), informed the Committee Of 
the results of informal consultations held on the draft resolution. 

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A1C.21461L.55 
by a recorded vote of 100 to 26 , with 11 abstentions (see para. 40, draft 
resolution IV). The voting was as follows: rp/ 

Znfavourr Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, 
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, 
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central Atztcan Republic, Chad, Chile, 
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote D'Ivoire, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Democratic Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Lao People'8 Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 
Mauritania, Mexico, Hongolia, Morocco, Mowmbique, lrlyanmar, 
Namibia, Nepal, Bicaragua, nfger, Rigerla, Oman, Pakistan, 
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United 
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet 
hm, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire. Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

s9/ Subsequently, the representative of Haiti stated that his delegation 
had intended to abstain. 

/ . . . 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page I 

AaaiDst: 

Abstaining: 

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, 
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, HuDgary, 
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand. Norway, 
Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

Argentina, Belarus, Greece, Liberia, Lithuania, Philippines, 
Republic of Korea, Spain, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, Uruguay. 

20. After the adoption of the draft resolution. statements were made by the 
representatives of the United States of America, Cyprus and Kuwait (see 
A/C.2/46/SR.58). 

E. Draft resolution A1C.21461L.56 

21. At the 45th meeting, on 19 November, the representative of w, on 
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are also members of 
the Group of 71, introduced a draft resolution (A1C.21461L.56) entitled 
"Adjustment of the Trade Control Measures Information System of the United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, as called for by the General 
Assembly in resolution 451210". 

22. At the 55th meeting, on 4 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Connnittee, 
Mr. Bozorgmehr Ziaran (Islamic Republic of Iran), read out the following 
revisions which had been agreed upon during informal consultations held on the 
draft resolution: in operative paragraph 4. the word "further" was placed 
between the words "improve" and "and strengthen": and the words "where 
appropriate" were added between "promote" and "and facilitate". 

23. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution contained no 
programe budget implications. 

24. At the same meeting, the Cormnittee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.2/46/L.56, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 40, draft 
resolution V). 

P. Qgaft resoLytFOna A/C.2/46/L.57 and u 

25. At the 51rt meeting, on 26 November, the repreaentatfve of w, also 
on behalf of 8oyvia. wana. Burundi, Lao eapPle's Demo- 
;, Mongolia. Izaon;L Rwaarlp, SwatLLBBQ and 
Zambia. subreguently joined by woe Verd& the Central Afr'ca n 

. 
ReDubliC. Rrgbl); and- w , introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/46/L.i7) 
entitled "Specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of 
land-locked developing countries", which read as follows: 

I... 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 8 

"m the provisions of its resolution 441214 of 
22 December 1969 and all other resolutions of the United Nations relating 
to the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries, 

II w that the lack of territorial access to the ses, 
aggravated by remoteness and isolation from world markets, and 
prohibitive transit costs and risks impose serious constraints on the 
overall socio-economic development efforts of the land-locked developing 
countries, 

**us that 15 of the 21 land-locked developing countries 
are also classified by the United Nations as least developed countries 
and that their geographical situation is an added constraint on their 
overall ability to cope with the challenges of development, 

"u that most transit countries are themselves developing 
countries facing serious economic problems, including the lack of 
adequate infrastructure in the transport sector, 

"m that measures to deal with the transit problems of 
land-locked developing countries require close cooperation and 
collaboration between those countries and their transit neighbours, 

*'m the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
adopted on 10 December 1982, &.I,/ 

"v the important role played by bilateral and regional and 
subregional integration and cooperative arrangements towards alleviating 
the transit problems of the land-locked developing countries and 
improving the transit transport systems in land-locked and transit 
developing countries, 

"m that the international support mea8ures taken 
thur far have not adequately addteased the problems of land-locked 
developing countries, 

"1. m the right Of access Of land-locked countries to and 
from the sea and freedom of transit through the territory of transit 
States by all means of transport, in accordance with international law; 

"2. w both the land-locked developing countries and their 
transit neighbours, within the spirit of South/South cooperation, to 
implement measures to strengthen further their cooperative and 
collaborative efforts in dealing with their transit problems; 

I... 



A/46/645/h66.2 
English 
Page 9 

“3. m to all States, international organisations ana 
financial institutions to implement, as a matter of urgency and priority, 
the specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of 
land-locked developing countries envisaged in the previous relevant 
resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, the International Development 
Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade, &2/ the 
Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular, the 
Revitalisation of Economic Growth end Development of the Developing 
Countries, u/ adopted at the eighteenth special session of the General 
Assembly, and the relevsat provisions of the Programme of Action for the 
Least Developed Countries for the 1990s: &$4/ 

"4. &R&~R the lsaa-locked developing countries and their transit 
neighbours to intensify further their cooperative arrangements for the 
development of transit infrastructures, institutions and services to 
facilitate ths movement of goods in transit with financial and technical 
assistance from donors end international agencies: 

"5. &U&R&RR that assistance for the improvement of transit 
facilities sad services should be integrated into the overall economic 
development strategy of the land-locked developing countries and that 
donor assistance should consequently take into account the requirement 
for long-term restructuring of the economies of the land-locked 
developing countries, including, as appropriate, the promotion of 
import-substituting industries producing high-bulk, low-value goods and 
developing high-value, low-bulk goods for eaport: 

“6. m donor countries sad multilateral financial and 
development institutions to provide land-locked ana transit developing 
countries with adequate financial and technical assistance in the form of 
grants or concessional loans for the construction, maintenance and 
improvement of their transit infrastructures, communications sad 
facilities in order fully to integrate them into the regional aad 
international transport and ccmunfcations networksi 

“7. m the Administrator of the United Nations D9velOpSWBt 
Programa to promote sad strengthen bilateral, subregional, regional and 
interregional projecto to expand further its support to the lead-locked 
developing countries end activities of technical cooperation for 
development geared towards achieving national sad collective 
self-reliance among them; 

u;L/ See General Assembly resolution 451199 of 21 December 1990. 

u/ General Assembly resolution S-1813. annex. 

A!$/ See A/CONF.147/18. 

I . . . 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 10 

. . "S. -note with avmeclatw of the contribution of the United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development in formulating international 
measures to deal with the special problems of the land-locked developing 
countries, and requesta the Secretary-General of the Conference: 

"(a) To keep under constant review the OVOlUtiOn of transit 
infrastructure facilities, institutions and services and to recommend 
means of improving them in the light of changing requirements of 
individual land-locked developing countries, taking into account 
technological developments, particularly in the area of information and 
communications: 

"(b) To act as focal point for promoting cross-regional interchange 
of information and experience in cooperation with regional and 
subregional organisations: 

"(c) To continue to monitor the implementation of specific measures 
for the land-locked developing countries agreed upon in the General 
Assembly, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and 
other international forumsj 

"(d) To collaborate with all initiatives being undertaken to 
overcome the particular problems of land-locked developing countries, 
including those of the private sector and the non-governmental 
organiaationsr 

"9. w the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development to carry out specific studies in the following 
areas and to report on the results of these studies to the Trade and 
Development Board and to the General Assembly: 

"(a) Liberalioation of transit services and streamlining of transit 
documentation and procedurerr 

"(b) If~plicatf~nr of high-transit costs on the overall development 
of the l-Id-locked developing countries; 

"(c) Identification of specific areas in the context of subregicnal 
and regional cooperation for the promotion and integration Of transit 
infrastructure and services and harmonisation of transit transport 
policies and legislation; 

"(d) Identification Of specific areaa for the expansion of the trade 
sector of land-locked 3eveloping countries, including the assessment of 
regional trade possibilities, 

"(e) Improvement of the security of goods in transit; 

"(f) Transit fat-lities accorded to land-locked developing countries 
in different regions: 

/ *.. 



A/46/645/A&3.2 
English 
Page 11 

"(9) Improvement of current transit insurance regimes; 

"(h) Application of new information technology to improve transit 
services: 

"(i) Identification of specific training needs to improve the 
managerial capacities and the skills of personnel involved in transit 
operations to ensure effective utilixation of transit transport 
facilities: 

"(j) Development and expansion of all other alternatives and/or 
complements to ground transportation in order to improve the access of 
land-locked countries to foreign markets: 

"10. Reauesu the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development, in collaboration with the Administrator of the 
United Nations Development Prograsxne and, where relevant. the executive 
heads of the subregional economic groupings, to convene subregional 
symposia/workshops of experts of land-locked and transit deve1Jping 
countries in 1992/93 on the basis of the studies in paragraph 9 above and 
other relevant studies: 

“11. peauests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference 
on Trade aad Development to conveae a meeting of high-level governmental 
experts of developing land-locked and transit countries and donor 
countries and financial and development institutions in 1993 to: 

"(a) Discuss the particular problems of land-locked developing 
countries in general, including those that are peculiar to individual 
countriest 

“(b) Consider support measures to foster better cooperative 
arrangements between transit and land-locked developing countries; 

"(~1 Provide an opportunity to exchange views on how effectively to 
tailor assistance programmes to meet the specific requirements of 
land-locked developing countries, including those programmes and projects 
that enhance cooperative arrangements between land-locked and transit 
developing countries: 

"(d) Identify the problems faced in implementing donor assistance 
prograsnnes in land-locked developing countries; 

"(e) Propose a concrete prograssne of action for the land-locked and 
transit developing countries, to be forwarded to the Trade and 
Development Board and tire General Assembly, at its forty-eighth session, 
for appropriate action: 

"12. &G&&S to strengthen the branch of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development dealing with land-locked and island 

/... 



A146164WAdd.2 
English 
Page 12 

developing countries in order to ensure the effective implementation Of 
the activities called for by the present resolution and other measures in 
support of land-locked developing countriesr 

"13. Welcomm the report of the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development on progress in the 
implementation of specific action related to the particular needs and 
problems of land-locked developing countries, submitted pursuant to 
resolution 441214, and requests him to prepare another report, taking 
into account the provisions of the present resolution, the results of the 
studies to be undertaken in accordance with paragraph 9 above, and the 
outcome of the meeting of governmental experts of developing land-locked 
and transit countries and donor countries and financial and development 
institutions, for submission to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth 
session." 

26. A statement by the Secretary-General on the progras%ne budget implications 
of the draft resolution, submitted in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, was subsequently circulated in document 
A/C.2/46/L.65. 

27. At its 58th meeting, on 11 December, the Committee had before it a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/46/L.116), submitted by tbe Vice-Chairman of the Committee, 
Mr. Boaorgmehr Riaran (Islamic Republic of Iran), on the basis of informal 
consultation8 held on draft resolution UC.2/46/L.57. 

26. The Committee was informed that the progr8mme budget implications 
contained in document AK.21461L.85 did not apply to the draft resolution 
contained in A/C.2/46/L.116. 

29. At the same meeting, the Cosunittee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.2/46/L.116 without a vote (see para. 40, draft resolution VI). 

30. After the adoption of the draft rorolutfon. the representative of Turkey 
made a etatement. 

31. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/46/L.118, draft 
resolution A/C.2/46/L.57 was withdrawn by it8 8ponrorr. 

G. w resolutian A/C.- 

32. At the 56th meeting, on 11 December, th8 Committe8 bad before it a draft 
resolution entitled "United Nationr/International klaritirm Organisation 
Conference of Plenipotentiarier on a Draft Convention on Maritime Lien8 and 
Mortgage&" (A1C.21461L.91) submitted by the Vice-Chairm8n of the Committee, 
Mr. Bozorgmehr Ziaran (Islamic Republic of Iran), on th8 ba8i8 of informal 
consultation8. 

I... 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 13 

33. A statement by the Secretary-General on the programme budget implications 
of the draft resolution, submitted in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of 
procedure for the General Assembly, was circulated in document A/C.2/46/L.l13. 

34. The representative of the Programme, Planning and Budget Division made a 
statement. 

35. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statemeats were made by the 
representatives of the Netherlands, on behalf of the States Members of the 
United Nations that are members of the European Community, and the United 
States of America. 

36. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resoution A/C.2/46/L.91 
without a vote (see para. 40, draft resolution VII). 

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/46&.92 

37. At the 55th meeting, on 4 December, the Committee had before it a draft 
resolution entitled "International code of conduct on the transfer of 
technology" (AK.21461L.92) submitted by the Vice-Chairman of the Conunittee. 
Mr. Bozorgmehr Ziaran (Islamic Republic of Iran), on the basia of informal 
consultations. 

30. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution AK.21461L.91 
.without a vote (see para. 40, draft resolution VIII). 

39. At its 58th meeting, on 11 December, on the proposal of the Chairman, the 
Committee decided to recommend to the General Assembly that it should take 
note of the note by the Secretary-General on progress in the implementation of 
specific action related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked 
developing countries (A/46/496 and Add.1) (see pare. 41). 

I... 



A/46/645/Add.l 
Knglish 
Page 14 

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF TRR SRCOND COMlITTEE 

40. The Second Connnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

9f multrLBtera1 tradQ 

me General Assemblv, 

Reaffirmi.Bg the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in 
particular the Revitalisation of Economic Growth and Development of the 
Developing Countries, contained in the annex to its resolution S-1813 of 
1 May 1990, and the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United 
Nations Development Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 451199 of 
21 December 1990, 

Recall- its resolution 45/201 of 21 December 1990, 

Takina note of the note by the Secretary-General concerning institutional 
developments related to the strengthening of international organisations in 
the area of multilateral trade, fi/ 

1. lLtsrpn all Governments and the executive heads of the specialized 
agencies and other organisations and programmes of the United Nations system 
to endeavour to present their views to the Secretary-General on this matter; 

2. $Q~R~&s the Secretary-General to prepare, for submission to the 
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, an updated report, taking into 
account the outcome of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations 
and the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

m its resolution 451210 of 21 December 1990 on environment and 
international trade, 

w Trade and Development Board resolution 393 (~~VIII) of 
4 October 1991 on the contribution of the United Nations Conference on Trade 

u/ A/46/565. 

/... 



A/46/645/Add.2 

English 
Page 15 

and Development, within its mandate, to sustainable development, in which the 
Board, inter ali@, reaffirmed the importance of an integrated perspective Of 
environment and development in order to tackle successfully the root causes of 
underdevelopment and environmental degradation and achieve the objective of 
sustainable development in all countries, 

1. Welcomes the efforts of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development to integrate increasingly the concept of sustainable development 
in its ongoing work, and encourages the Secretary-General of United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development to pursue that process; 

2. 8tresseg the importance of the contribution of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, within its mandate, to the preparatory 
process for the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and 
to the follow-up to that Conference; 

3. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development to take the necessary action to pursue and expedite, 
where appropriate, the studies and other work requested in paragraph 7 of 
Trade and Development Board resolution 393 (XXXVIII), taking into account what 
is being done by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development 
in this area, so that they may in addition contribute effectively, within the 
mandate of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to the 
preparatory process for the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development and its follow-up. 

DRAFT RBSOLUTION III 

u&~g its resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964, as ameaded, u/ 
on the establia~bment of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development, the Final Act adopted by the Conference at its seventh sesafon, 
held, at Geneva from 9 July to 3 August 1987, n2/ and the Declaration on the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development, contained in Trade and Development Board resolution 376 (JQSXVI) 
of 13 October 1989, u/ as endorsed by tbe General Assembly in resolution 
44/19 of 14 November 1989, 

u6/ See resolutions 2904 (XXVII), 3112 A and B and 34/3. 

n/ See ProcesBincrs of the United on Trade aaP 
I, &oort and &RD~RS~ (United Nations 

publication, Sales lo. E.88.II.D.l), part one, sect. A.l. 

ui~/ Qfficial Records the Genw1 Assemk&v. Forty-fourth Session, 
-5 (A/44/15), vol. II, Sect. 1I.A. 

/ *.. 



A/46/64I/Md.Z 
KlUJliSLl 
Page 16 

v  its resolution 45/203 of 21 December 1990 on the Trade and 
Developnt Board, 

e that the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on 
Zrade and Development, to be held in Colombia in 1992, provides, with its 
davelopment-oriented agenda, a timely opportunity to advance the dialogue on 
major development issues, taking into account the global political, economic 
and technological changes of the recent past, 

w Trade and Develcpment Board resolution 396 (XXXVIII) of 
4 October 1991 on debt and development problems of developing countries BP/ as 
part of the continuing contribution of the Board to the search for a durable 
solution to the problems of the external indebtedness of developing countries, 
as well as to the substantive preparations for the eighth session of the 
Conference, 

m that the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations 
should result in a substantial and balanced outcome in all areas involved, 
including areas of particular importance to developing countries, 

l?Q.LiM that the mrt, 1991, 2p/ constitutes a 
valuable contribution to the debate on the interdependence of the problems of 
trade, development finance and the international monetary system, as well es 
to tbe understanding of the issues examined within the Uruguay Round of 
multilateral trade negotiations, 

1. v  of the report of the Trade and Development Board on the 
second part of ita thirty-seventh session and the first part of its 
thirty-eighth SOSSiOn, a/ and urges all member States to give effect t0 the 
provisions of the resolutions and decisions adopted by the Board1 

2. w the contribution made by the Trade and 
Devdoplwnt Board to the understanding of the interdependence of problems Of 
trade, davelopnt finance and the international monetary system, taking intO 
account the seeds of developing countriear 

3. m the nead for all countries to fulfil their 
reapoaaibilitiea in strengthening the rulaa and disciplines of the 
roltilateral trading SyStOm for the benefit of all countries and, to this end, 

s/ Ibid., rotfv-silrthn. SB No. s (A/46/15), vol. II, 
sect. I1.A. 

tQ/ United lfationa publication, Sales lo. E.Pl.II.D.15. 

rda of u Gene-v, Fortv-m , 
(A/46/15), ~018. I and II. 

I... 



A/46/645/Add.2 

English 
page 17 

Urges all participants in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations 
t0 adopt a Constructive and comprehensive approach thereto in order to achieve 
a SUCCeSSful and balanced outcome in accordance with the Minieterial 
Declaration on the Uruguay Round; a/ 

4. B&XX&&~ its invitation to the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and Development, at its eiqJth session, to assetm the outcome of the Uruguay 
Round, in particular in areas of interest or concern to developing countries: 

5. Welcomes Trade and Development Board resolution 394 (mmVII1) of 
4 October 1991 a/ OIL economic cooperation among developing countries and 
problems of trade and trade financing as a further step in the implementation 
of the Caracas Progranune of Action, a/ stresses the need for continued 
support by the secretariat of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development to the process of economic cooperation emong developing countries 
through studies, extension of expertise and technical assistance and, in this 
connection, invites the United Nations Development Programme and other funding 
institutions to continue to provide financial support to this process; 

6. use welcpnap the progresr achieved 80 far in the substantive 
preparations for the eighth session of the United Natioa8 Conference on Trade 
and Development; 

7. Stresses the crucial importance of the eighth session of the 
Conference in advancing the development dialogue and in giving new impetus to 
multilateral economic cooperatioa, and affirms the need to achieve at that 
session a positive, action-oriented outcome in the interrelated areas of 
trade, resources for development, technology, comoditiem and rervices, which. 
in particular , will be instrumental to the revitalfratioa of the development 
process of the developing countries , will rtrengthea further the impact of the 
work of the Conference on national and international policy-making and will 
contribute to the implementation of the commitments and policies contained in 
the Declaration oa International Economic Cooperation, in particular the 
Revitaliaatioa of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing Countries, 
contained in the annex to its resolution S-1813 of 1 Xay 1990. 

DRAPT RRSOLUTIOR IV 

w the relevant principlea set forth in the Charter of the United 
Nations, 

a/ See w Pocus NbwWD- 4,&, October 1986. 

au/ A/36/333 aad Corr.1, annex. 

/ .*. 



A/46/645/Add. 2 
English 
Page 18 

m also its resolutions 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, 3201 (S-VI) 
and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974 and 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, containing 
the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, 

Reaffirming article 32 of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of 
States, which declares that no State may use or encourage the use of economic, 
political or any other type of measures to coerce another State in order to 
obtain from it the subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights, 

m+ge the general principles governing international trade and 
trade policies for development contained in the relevant resolutions and rules 
of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 

&R&&R&J its resolutions 381197 of 20 December 1983, 39/210 of 
18 December 1984, 401185 of 17 December 1985. 411165 of 5 December 1986, 
42/173 of 11 December 1987 and 441215 of 22 December 1989, and considering 
that further work needs to be undertaken in order to implement them, 

v that the use of coercive economic measures adversely 
affects the economy and development efforts of developing countries and 
creates a general negative impact on international economic cooperation and on 
the world-wide effort to move towards a non-discriminatory, open, trading 
system, 

. . e the note by the Secretary-General prepared in 
response to Assembly resolution 441215, 2p/ and his assessment of how to 
continue his task, 

m that the mandate provided in paragraph 6 of resolution 44/215 
has not been fully implemented, 

1. w the international community to adopt urgent and effective 
measures to eliminate the ure by some doveloped countries of unilateral 
economic coercive measures against developing countries with the purpose of 
exerting, directly or indirectly, coercion on the sovereign &:isions of the 
countries subject to those mearuresr 

2. w the fact that some developed countries continue to apply 
economic measures and, in soms cases, have increased their scope and 
magnitude, as evidenced by trade restrictions, blockades, embargoes, freezing 
of assets and other economic sanctions incompatible with the Charter of the 
United Nationst 

3. v  developed countries to refrain from making use of their 
predominant position in the international economy to exercise political or 

24;/ A/46/567. 

/ . . . 



A/46/645/Add. 2 
English 
Page 19 

eCOnOmiC coercion through the application of economic instruments with the 
purpose of inducing changes in the economic, political, commercial and social 
policies of other countries; 

4. &~I&Q~&.R the Secretary-General to pursue fully his mandate as 
contained in paragraph 6 of Assembly resolution 441215, through the Office of 
the Director-General for Development and International Economic Cooperation 
and in close cooperation with the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development; 

5. A180 reauem the Secr&ary-General to report to the General 
Assembly at its forty-eighth session on the implementation of the present 
resolution. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION V 

Adiustment of the Tr c n em 
of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Develonment, 
&s celled for bv the General Assemhlv in resolution 45/21Q 

Stressincr the principle of free and fair global trade, which should be 
conducive to the significant enhancement of the trade and development 
prospects of all countries, in particular developing countries, and the 
importance to that end of promoting transparency with regard to national trade 
measures, 

Recalling Trade and Development Board decision 354 (%XXIV) of 
10 kay 1900, a/ in which the Board recognised that the computerised database 
on trade measures was a valuable source of information on general and 
product-specific trade measures and authorised the secretariat of the United 
Nations Conference on Trade and D8vslopm8nt to provide, on request, the 
information contained in that database, 

v  paragraph 1 (b) of its resolution 45/210 of 
21 December 1990, in which it called for the adjustment of the Trade Control 
Measures Information System of the United blatlois Conference on Trade and 
Development to monitor environmental repulatiOn8 for possible protectionism 
and to monitor non-tariff measures that have a bearing on the environment, in 
accordance with paragraph 6 of Trade and Development Board decision 
384 (mWrII) of 12 October 1990, tP/ 

a/ Qfficial Reco ds of the General Assemblv. 
aonlement No. b5. (A/43&), vol. I, sect. 

Portv third Sees - - ion, 
1X.A. 

a/ Ibid., n-fifth Session, Sunnlement No. 15 (A/45/15), 
sect. 111.8.2. 

/... 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 20 

1. m Arade sad Development Board decision 395 (XXXVIII), of 
4 October 1991, a/ in which the secretariat of the United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development was invited to make use of the information collected 
by and held in the International Trade Centre as well as the General Agreement 
on Tariffs sad Trade and other relevant organisations for the purpose of 
facilitating collection by the Conference of data on environmental measures 
related to trade in the Trade Control Measures Information System, and to 
continue to make available on request information from the System: 

2. w the initial steps taken by the secretariat of the Conference 
to introduce the adjustments in the System called for by the General Assembly 
in resolution 451210; 

3. Alao the measures initiated by the Secretary-General of the 
Conference to disseminate the information contained in the database, and 
invites Member States that have not yet done so to designate focal points to 
facilitate the exchange sad dissemination of information contained in the 
Systemr 

4. m the need to improve further and strengthen the database, 
including an expansion of its coverage of countries and measures and more 
continuous updating of the information contained therein, with a view to 
enhancing its utility for trade negotiations and export promotion, as well aa 
for analytical purposes, and requests the Secretary-General of the Conference 
to take all the additional measures necessary to expedite the work required, 
in particular the adjustment Of the Systqm called for by the Assembly in 
resolution 451210, end to promote, where appropriate, and facilitate the 
dissemination of information from the System and any analysis thereof, 
pursuant to paragraph 5 of Trade sad Development Board resolution 
393 (XXXVIII) of 4 October 1991. MP/ 

Dm RSSOLUTIOD VI 

d to 

w the provisions OS its rOsOlUtiOB 441214 of 22 December 1989 sad 
all other relevant resolutions of the United Nations relating to the 
particular need8 and problems of land-locked developing countries, 

s thet the lack of territorial access to the sea, aggravated by 
remoteness sad isolation from world markets, and prohibitive transit costs and 
risks impose serious constraints on tbe overall socio-economic development 
efforts of the land-locked developing countries, 

n/ Ibid., portv-sixth &ssioa. Suoolemeat No. u (A/46/15), vol. II, 

sect. 1I.B. 

/ . . . 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 21 

&Goonieino f&9 that fifteen of the twenty-one iand-locked developing 
COUdries are also classified by the United Nations as least developed 
COWltrieS and that their geographical situation is an added constraint on 
their overall ability to cope with the challenges of development, 

%ecoanixina further that most transit countries are themselves developing 
Countrieff facing serious economic problems, including the lack of adequate 
infrastructure in the transport sector, 

P ecbllina_blso that measures to deal with the transit problems Of 
land-locked developing countries require close cooperation and collaboration 
between those countries and their transit neighbours, 

Pecallinq the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, adopted on 
10 December 1982, a/ 

. . Pecoanrrmg the important role played by bilateral cooperative 
arrangements and regional and subregional integration in alleviating the 
transit problems of the land-locked developing countries and improving the 
transit transport systems in land-locked and transit-developing countries, 

)lotinq the importance of strengthening the existing international support 
measures with a view to further addressing the problems of land-locked 
developed countries, 

. 1. Reaffirms the right of access of land-locked countries to and from 
tbe sea and freedom of transit through the territory of transit States by all 
means of transport, in accordance with international law: 

2. Reaffirms that transit-developing countries, in the exercise of 
their full sovereignty over their territory, have the right to take all 
measures neceraary to ensure that the rights and facilities provided for 
land-locked developing countries should in no way infringe upon their 
legitimate interests; 

3. Callr, both the land-locked developing countries and their 
transit neighbours, within the spirit of South/South cooperation, including 
bilateral cooperation, to implement measures to strengthen further their 
cooperative and collaborative efforts in dealing with their transit problems: 

4. w to all Statea, international organisations and financial 
institutions to implement, as a matter of urgency and priority, the specific 
actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing 
countries envisaged in the previous resolutions adopted by the General 

ted latiQgs Conference on the Law 
vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. B.84.V.31, 

document A/CONP.62/122. 

/... 



A/46/645/Add.2 
English 
Page 22 

Assembly and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the 
International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development 
Decade, 2p/ the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in 
particular, the Revitalisation of Economic Growth and Development of the 
Developing Countries, adopted at the eighteenth special session of the General 
Assembly, contained in the annex to its resolution S-1813 of 1 May 1990, and 
the relevant provisions of the Progr?unme of Action for the Least Developed 
Countriea for the 1990s; 3~21 

5. ,&&RR the land-locked developing countries and their transit 
neighbour8 to intensify further their cooperative arrangements for the 
development of transit infrastructures, institutions and services to 
facilitate the movement of goods in transit with financial and technical 
assistance from donors and international agencies> 

6. &Inhasisa that assistance for the improvement of transport transit 
facilities and services should be integrated into the overall economic 
development strategy of the land-locked developing countriea and that donor 
assistance should consequently take into account the requirement for long-term 
restructuring of the economies of the land-locked developing countries: 

7. m donor countries and multilateral financial and development 
institutions to provide land-locked and transit-developing countries with 
appropriate financial and technical assistance in the form of grants or 
concessional loans for the construction, maintenance and improvement of their 
transport, storage and transit infrastructures and facilities, including 
alternative routes and improved communications; 

8. R&IRR&R the United Nations Development Programme, as appropriate, 
further to promote subregional, regional and interregional projects and 
progrmmms and to expand its support in the transport and communication 
sectors to the land-locked and transit-developing countries and its technical 
cooperation for development geared towards promoting national and collective 
aelf-reliance among themnl 

9. wte rfth of the contribution of the United 
Nations Conference on Trade end Development in formulating international 
measures to deal with the special problem8 of the land-locked developing 
countries, and urges the Conference to, walia, keep under constant review 
the evolution of transport transit infraStrUCtUre facilities, institutions and 
services, monitor the implementation of agreed measures, collaborate in cl1 
relevant initiatives. including those of private rector and non-governmental 
orgeniaations, and serve as a focal point on cross-regional issues of interest 
to lend-locked developing countries; 

Zp/ See General Assembly resolution 45/199, annex, of 21 December 1990. 

a/ See A/CGNP.147/18. 

/ . . . 



A/46/645/Add.2 

English 
Page 23 

10. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development to carry out, within the overall level of resources for 
the biennium 1992-1993. specific studies in the following areas, ioalia, 
bearing in mind the need to address the concerns for transit-developing 
countries6 and to report on the results of the studies to the Trade and 
Development Board and the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session: 

(a) Implications of high transit costs on the overall development of the 
land-locked developing countries; 

(b) Identification of specific areas in the context of subregional and 
regional cooperation for the promotion and integration of transit 
infrastructure and services and harmonisation of transit transport policies 
and legislation and the assessment of regional trade possibilities for the 
expansion Of the trade sector of land-locked developing countries; 

(C) Improvement of current transit insurance regimes; 

(d) Application of new information technology to improve transit 
services: 

(e) Identification of specific training needs to improve the managerial’ 
capacities and the skills of personnel involved in transit operation6 to 
ensure effective utilisation of transit transport facilities; 

(f) Development and expansion of all other alternatives and/or 
complements to ground transportation in order to improve the access of 
land-locked countries to foreign msrkets# 

11. X,ay&9~ the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development, in collaboration with the Administratx of the United 
Nations Development Prograsnne and, where relevant, tbe executive heads of the 
subregional economic groupings, to convene subregional symposia/workshops of 
experts of land-locked and transit-devel2oping countries in 1992-1993 on the 
basis of the studies cited in paragraph 10 above and in other relevant studies; 

12. m the Secretary-General to convene a meeting of governmental 
experts from developing land-locked and transit-developing countries and 
representatives of donor countries and financial and development institutions 
in 1993 to review and propore appropriate concrete action to address the 
problems of land-locked developing countries, to be forwarded to the Trade and 
Development Board and to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, for 
appropriate action: 

13. w the Secretary-General', in consultation with the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
to take appropriate measures to enhance the capacity of the Conference, within 
existing resources for the biennium 1992-1993, in the area dealing with 
land-locked and island developing countries so as to ensure the effective 
implementation of the activities called for in the present resolution and of 
existing measures in support of land-locked developing countrieut 

/ *.. 



A/46/645/Add. 2 
Rnglish 
Page 24 

14. m the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development on the progress being made to address the 
particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries, a/ and 
reguests him to prepare another report, taking into account the provisions of 
the present resolution, for submission to the General Assembly at its 
forty-eighth session. 

DRAPT RESOLUTION VII 

of Plen@&&&Rries on a Draft Co veation on Maritime Liens 
and 

lW General A-mm! , 

&cooniring the importance of the subject of maritime liens and mortgages 
in ship financing and in the development of national merchant fleets, 

lImohas&.&. the need for international uniformity and for the 
establishment of a widely acceptable international legal instrument governing 
the subject of maritime liens and mortgages, 

m the desirability of facilitating the harmonious and orderly 
development of world trade, 

1. m its m to the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and Development and to the International Maritime Organisation for the 
valuable work done in preparing a draft convention on maritime liens and 
mortgages; 

2. M9i&~ that a United Rations/International Maritime Organisation 
Conference of Plenipotentiaries on a Draft Convention on Maritime Liens and 
bfortgagecl shall be convened at Geneva during the first half of 1993 for a 
period of three weeks to consider the draft convention and to embody the 
resulte of its work in a convention on maritime liens and mortgages; 

3. -8 that the following shall be invited: 

(a) All States, to participate in the Conference; 

(b) All members of the International Maritime Organisation, to 
participate in the Conferencet 

(c) Representatives of organirationr that have received a standing 
invitation from the General A~lrembly to participate in the capacity of 
observers, in the sessions and the work of all international conferences 

u/ A/46/496 and Add.1. 

/... 



A/46/645/Add.Z 
English 
Page 25 

convened under its auspices: these representatives would participate in the 
Conference in that capacity, in accordance with Assembly resolution 
3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 1974: 

(d) Representatives of the national liberation movements recognised by 
the Organization of African Unity in its region; these representatives would 
participate in the Conference in the capacity of observers, in accordance with 
General Assembly resolution 3260 (XXIX) of 10 December 1974; 

(e) The specialised agencies, the International Atomic Energy Agency and 
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, as well as interested organs of 
the United Nations, which should be represented by observers at the Conference; 

(f) Intergovernmental bodies in consultative status with the United 
Nation8 Conference on Trade and Development and the International Maritime 
Organization, which should be represented by observers at the Conference: 

(g) Directly concerned non-governmental organizations in consultative 
status with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the 
International Maritime Organization, which should be represented by observers 
at the Conference: 

4. bauest6 the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development and the Secretary-General of the International Maritime 
Organiration to make the necessary arrangements, within existing resources, 
for holding the Conference at Geneva, to submit to the Conference all relevant 
documentation, including the rules of procedure of the Conference, and to 
arrange for the necessary staff, facilities and services that it will require; 

5. Decidap that the languages of the Conference shall be those used in 
the General Assembly and its Main Committees. 

DRAE'T RESOLUTION VIII 

m its resolution 451204 of 21 December 1990 on an international 
code of conduct on the transfer of technology, 

1. m of the report of the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development on the consultations carried out 
in 1991 on an international code of conduct on the transfer of technology: u/ 

JJ/ A/46/564, annex. 

/a.. 



N46/645/Add.2 
Euglish 
Page 26 

2. m to transmit that report to the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development at its eighth session; 

3. Recruests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development to report to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh 
session on the outcome of the consideration of the report by the Conference at 
its eighth session. 

L * l 

41. The Second Consnittww also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption 
of the following draft decision: 

Potw bv the Se 9wtarv-General o oroa 88s ' the imolwmwntatiou 
9f sDec1f.h action related to t ii, Da&l:: needs a nd orobl. 

nf the land-locked dwvwlovina ce 

The General A~swmbly decides to take note of the note by thw 
Secretary-General OIL progress in the implementation of specific action related 
to the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries. s/ 

321 A/46/496 and Add.1. 


