







































UNITED
NATIONS

I- --

General Assembly
Diutr.
GENERAL

A/46/670
22 November 1991
ENQLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Forty-sixth sessisn
Agenda item 57

PREVENTION OF AN ARMS  RACE IN OUTER SPACE

&WJi&Jb&UlaPirsL?&~

&ppwa Mr. Pablo Emilio SADER (Uruguay)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled “Prevention of an arms race fn o u t e r  Spi3Ct3" was
included in the provisional agenc¶a  of the forty-sixth session of the Qeneral
Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolution 45/55 A of 4 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recomrnenc¶ation  of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 10 October 1991, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items
47 to 65. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
24th meetings, from 14 to 30 October (see A/C.1/46/PV.3-24).  Consideratfon of
and action on draft resolutions on those items took place tetwoen the 25th and
37th meetilge, from 4 to 15 November (see A/C,1/46/PV,25-37).

4. In connection with item 57, the First Committee had beforo it the
following documents

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmamentt L/

Df_Bx_Grds  of the General Ass@~&&_~-sixt&.&,
(A/4!i/27).

91-45404 0651P (E) / . . .



A/46/670
English
Page 2

(b) Lotto:  dated 23 September 19Ql from the Permanent Repreaeatative  of
the Demoaratia Pooplo’s Republia  of Korea to the United Nations addreseed to
the leorotary-Qeoaral  (A/46/493) .

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/46/L.25

6. On 1 Novembar lQQlr &gmj&&  fir-China.. W&?&. IndoneaPe.

Vm and m submitted a draft
resolution rntitleb  8aPreventJ,on  of an arm0 raoe in outar 8paae’0
(A/C.l/46/L.26),  whloh  wan later aleo sponsored  by  m

. m and Ukraine.
The draft rerolution wao introduaed by the representative of Egypt at the
31st meeting, on 7 November.

6 . At ito 34th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee voted on draft
r e s o l u t i o n  A/C,l/46/L,25  aa followal a/

(a) Operative paragraph 9 wa# adopted by a reaorded vote of 107 to 1,
with 26 abrtentions. The voting wae  an follows~

In: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Auetrih,
Bahamaa,  Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarue, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Brunei Daruaaalam,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central Afrlaan
Regublia, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Riaa,
C&o d’fvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Demoaratio People’6 Regublia of
Korea, Djibouti, Dominiaan  Republio, Eauador,  Egypt,
Eston ia ,  Eth iop ia ,  F i j i ,  F in land ,  Qhana,  Qrenada, Quatemala,
Quinea, Quyana, Hait i ,  India,  Indones ia ,  I ran  (Islamia
Ropublia  of), Irag, Ireland, J;imaiaa, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait ,
Lao People’s Demoaratia Reptilio, Lesotho,  Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahirlya,  Lieahtrnotoinr Lithuania, Madagaeaar,
Malayria,  Maldives, Mall, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexiao,
Mongolia, Moroaoo, Myanmar,  Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand,
Niasragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Quinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republia, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Sooialist  Republias, United
Arab Emirates, United Republia of Tanaania,  Uruguay,
Veneauela,  Viot 2 ., Yemen,  Y u g o s l a v i a ,  Z i m b a b w e ,

-1 United Statea of America.

21 Subsequently, the delegations of Rwanda and Zaire indicated that
they had intended to vote in favour of ogerative  paragraph 9 and of the draft
rcrsolution ae a whole.

/ ..a



A/46/670
Englieh
Page 3

-1 Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Cseohoslovakia, Denmark,
Frame, Qermany,  Greeoe, Hungary, Iaeland, Ilrrael, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Lebanoa,  Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republia of Korea, Romania, Spain, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland.

(b) Draft  resolution A/C.l/46/L,26,  ari a whole, WNI adopted by a
reoorded vote of 135 to none, with 1 abstention (nee para, 7). Tho voting was
a8 f 04lowa  I

Tnfavaurl Afghanistan, Albania,  Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Rshraip, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarua,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braoil, Brunei
Daruaralam, Bulgaria, Burkina Raao, Cameroon, Canada, Cage
Verde, Central Afriaan Bepubliar  Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Bias, Cbte d@Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Casohoslovakia, Demoaratio People’8 Republia of Korea,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominiaan  Republia, Ecuador,  Egypt,
Eatonis,  Ethiopia,  Fij i ,  F inland,  Framer  Qermany, Qhana,
Qrcpeae,  Qrenada, Quatemala,  Quinea, Quyana,  Haiti, H u n g a r y ,
Iaeland, India, Indonenia,  Iran (Islamio Republia of ), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaiaa, Japan, Jordan, Kenya ,
Kuwait, Lao Peogle~s Demooratia Repblia, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamabiriya,  Lioahtrnrtein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagamaar,  Malayais,  Maldivaar Ma&i,
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritiur, Mexiao, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mooambique,  Myanmar  , Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,  New
Zealand, Niaaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panema, Papua New Quinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippinea,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republia of Korea, Ron?ania,  8audi
Arabia, lenegal, Singapore, Spain,  Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaoiland,  Sweden, Syrian Arab Republia, Thailand,
Togo, Tunilria, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet
Socialist Regublias, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republia o f
Tanlania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
2 imbabwe v

-1 None.

-I United Statee of knttriaa.

III . RECOMMENDATION

7. The First Committee recommends to
the following draft resolution:

OF THE FIRST COWITTEE

the Qear c 11 Aaaembly the adoption o f



A/46/670
English
Peg0 4

RRRQ&S& the commor interest of all meakincl  in the exploration and use
of outer space for peaceful purposes,

D the will of all States that the exploration and use of outer
space, inclutling the Moon and other celestial bodies, shall bs for peaceful
purposes, shall be carried out for the benefit anA in the interest of all
countrien,  irrespective of their degree of economic or scientif ic  development,
and shall be the province of all mankind,

B provisions of articles III and IV of the Treaty on
Principler  CJoveraing  the Activit ies of State& in the Exploration and Use o f
Outer Spaae, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 91

m the obligation of all States to observe the provisions of t h e
Charter of the United Nations regarding the use or threat of use of fcrce in
their  international  relat ions, including in their space activities,

-further paragraph 60 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Spoaial  Session of the General  Assembly ,  $1 in which it is stated that in
order to prevent an arms race in outer space further measures should be taken
and appropriate international negotiations held in accordance with the spirit
of the Treaty ,

n its previous resolutions on this issue and the Declaration
adopted by the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Belgrade  from 4 to 7 September 1989, 31 and taking note o f
the proposals submitted to the Qeneral Assembly at its tenth special session
and at its regular sessions , and of the recommendations made to the competent
organs of the United Nations and to the Conference on Disarmament,

w the grave danger for international  peace and security of a n
arms race in outer space and of develr@ents contributing to it,

mphaaisincr the paramount importance of strict compliance with existing
arms limitation dwl disarmament agreements relevant to outer space, including
bilateral agreements, and with the existing legal regime concerning the use of
outer apace,

w Resolution 2222 (XXI), annex.

41 Resolution S/10-2.

W See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

/ . . .



A/46/630
English
Page 5

v that wide partioipation in the legal regime appliaable
to outer space coultl  contribute to enhancing it8 effectiveneee,

w that bilateral negotiations between the Uaion of Soviet SooiaXiet
RepubLios and the United States of Ameriaa  have crontinued  einoe lObis  with the
‘declared objective of working out effective agreements aimed, m, at
preventing an arms raoe in outer space,

m the re-establiehmeat of the Ad Hoa Committee on the Pravention
ef an Arms Raae in Outer Space at the 1991 session of the Confermae  on
Disarmement,  in the exercise of the n e g o t i a t i n g  responeibilitiee  of th i s  so le
negotiating body on disarmament, to continue to examine and identify, through
substantive and general consideration, iesuea relevant to the prevention of a n
arms race in outer apace,

v that the Ad Hoc Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race
in Outer Spaae, tr\king i n t o  acaount its previoue effort8  rrinoo  itc
eetabliehment in lb65 and seeking to enhance its funotioning in gualitative
terms, continued the examination and identification of varioue irsuer,
existing agreements and existing proposals , ae well ae fu ture  in i t ia t i ves
relevant to the prevention of an arms race in outer epace, 41 and that this
contributed to a better understanding of a number of problems and to a olearer
perception of the various positions,

gmphaaiPirrcr  the mutually complementary nature of bilateral and
multi lateral  efforts in the field of preventing an arme raae in outer epacer
and hoping that concrete reteults will emerge from these effort8 ae soon as
possible,

Convinced  that further measures should be examined in the eearch for
effective end verifiable bilateral and multilateral agreement8 in order t o
prevent an arms race in outer apace,

Recalligcr  in this context its resolution 45/55 B of 4 December  1 9 9 0
which, igter u, reafcirmed  the importance of confidence-building meaeuree
as mean8  conducive to ensuring the attainment of the objective of the
prevention of an arms race in outer space,

1. Reaf the importance and urgenoy of preventing an arme race i n
outer space and the readiness of all States to contribute to that oonunon
objective, in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty on Prinoiplee  ,
Governing the Activities of State6 in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space,
including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies1

(A/46/27), pare. 91.

/ . . .



h/46/630
EnqlilBh
Page 6

2. m its rew, a8 ntated in the r e p o r t  of the Ad Hao
Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Raoe in Outer Space, that the legal
regime appliaable to outer spaoe by itself does not guarantee the prevent ion
of an arm0 read in outer xpaae, that this legal regime plays a s ignif icant
role in the prevention of an arma race in that environment, the need to
consolidate and reinforoe that regime and enhanoe it8 effeativeneee, and the
importance of the strict complfan&  with existing agreements, both bilateral
and multilateralr  21

3. m the neaeseity of further measure6  with appropriate and
etf f ective provision8 for verifioation  to prevent an arms race in outer spacer

4 . Calla U~QP a l l States, in particular those with major spaae
capabilities,  to aontribute aativelg to the objeative of the peaceful  use of
outer space and of the prevention of an arma raae in outer apace and to
refrain from aations  aontrary to that objeotive  and to the relevant exist ing
treaties in the interest of maintainiug  international peaae and security and
promoting internstional  oooperetion)

5. Reiteratsa  that the Conference on Disarmament, tici the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, has the primary role in the
negotiation of a multilateral agreement or agreements, aa appropriate, on t h e
prevention of  an arma raae in outer spacre in all its aspectat

6. ;m the Conference on Disarmament to consider aa a patter  of
priority the guestion of preventing an arms raae in outer space1

7. u rem the Conferenae on Disarmament to intensify ita
conaideratioa  of the querrtion  of the preventior:  of an arma raae in outer  s p a c e
i n  a l l  i t s  aapecta, building upon areaa of aonvergenae curd taking into account
re levant  proposals and init iat ives, inaluding those presented in the Ad Boo
Committee at the 1991 xesxion  of the Conferenae and at the forty-sixth seasion
of the  Qenetral  Asaemblyr

8. m, in this r e g a r d , the relevanae of considering measure8  on
confidence-building and greater transpsrency and openness in apwe an stated
in the report of the Ad Hoc Committeer

9. Further rem the Conference on Disarmament  to re-establish  an
ad hoc committee with an adeguats mandate at the beginning of its 1992 session
and to continue building upon area8 of convergenae  with a view to undertaking
negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement or agreements, as appropriate,
to prevent an arms race in outer space in all its aepecter

10. m the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic8 and the United States
of America to pursue  intensively  their bilateral negotiaticna in a

11 Ib id . ,  para. 60 of quoted text.

/ . . .



constructive spirit with a view to reaching
arm18  race in o u t e r  spacer  and to adviae the

early agreement for preventing  an
Conference on Diearmament

periodical ly  of  the progress  of their  bi lateral  session 80 aB to facilitate
i t s  work)

A/46/670
English
Page 7

11. $&&&E to include in the provisional agenda of it8 forty-seventh
session the item entitled “Prevention of an arms race in outer space”.


