







































Distr. 
GENERAL 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 60 

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapportex: Mr. Pablo Emilio SADER (Uruguay) 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. The item entitled: 

"General and complete disarmament: 

"(a) Notification of nuclear tests; 

"(b) International arms transfers; 

"(c) Implementation of General. Assembly resolutions in the field Of 
disarmament; 

"(d) Conversion of military resources to civilian purposes; 

"(e) Relationship between disarmament and development; 

"(f) Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of 
radiological weapons: 

"(9) Conventional disarmament; 

"(h) Prohibition of attacks on nuclear facilities; 

"(i) Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes; 

"(j) Prohibition of the production of fissionable material for weapons 
purposes; 

91-46592 0679P (E) / . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 2 

'l(k) Charting potential uses of resources allocated to military 
activities for civilian endeavours to protect the environment; 

"(1) Regional disarmament; 

"(m) Naval armaments and diSarmament; 

"(n) Conventional disarmament on a regional scale" 

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-sixth session of the 
General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 42138 C of 
30 November 1987, 43/75 I of 7 December 1988, 441116 G and J of 
15 December 1989 and 45158 A, F, G, J, K, L, N and P of 4 December 1990 and 
decisions 45/415, 45/416 and 45/418 of 4 December 1990. 

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in 
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee. 

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 10 October 1991, the First Committee decided to 
hold a general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, 
items 47 to 65. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd 
and 24th meetings, from 14 to 30 October (see A/C.l/46/PV,3-24). 
Consideration of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place 
between the 25th and 37th meetings, from 4 to 15 November (see 
A/C.1/46/PV.25-37). 

4. In connection with item 60, the First Committee had before it the 
following documents: 

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 11 

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; 2/ 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the study on ways and means of 
promoting transparency in international transfers of conventional arms 
(A/46/301); 

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on conventional disarmament on a 
regional scale (A/46/333 and Corr.1 and Add.1); 

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on charting potential uses of 
resources allocated to military activities for civilian endeavours to protect 
the environment (A/46/364): 

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-sixth Session, 
Supplement No. 27 (A/46/27). 

21 Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/46/42). 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 3 

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of General 
Assembly resolutions in the field of disarmament (A/46/398); 

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on the conversion of military 
resources to civilian purposes (A/46/495 and Add.1): 

(h) Report of the Secretary-General on the relationship between 
disarmament and development (A/46/527); 

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on the prohibition of attacks on 
nuclear facilities (~1461556); 

Cj> Note by the Secretary-General on the notification of nuclear tests 
(~1461466); 

(k) Letter dated 16 January 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
France to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting 
the text of the Joint Declaration of 22 States, signed in Paris on 
19 November 1990 (A/46/68); 

(1) Letter dated 25 March 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Canada to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/46/124-~/22411); 

(m) Letter dated 3 April 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Belgium to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/46/133-~/22450); 

(n) Letter dated 15 April 1991 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the 
Permanent Mission of Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/46/153-S/22506); 

(0) Letter dated 21 May 1991 from the Permanent Representatives of 
Hungary and Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, 
transmitting the text of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic 
of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the Establishment of an Open Skies 
Regime, signed at Bucharest on 11 May 1991 (A/46/188-S/22638); 

(p) Letter dated 23 May 1991 from the Permanent Representatives of 
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the statement issued at Santiago 
on 9 May 1991 by the Permanent Commission for the South Pacific (A/46/203); 

(q) Letter dated 3 June 1991 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the 
Permanent Mission of France to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/46/212-S/22667); 

(r) Letter dated 3 June 1991 from the Permanent Representatives of 
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the statement issued at Santiago 
on 28 May 1991 by the Permanent Commission for the South Pacific (A/46/223): 

/ . * . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 4 

(s) Letter dated 5 June 1991 from the Permanent Representatives of 
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the statement issued at Santiago 
on 31 May 1991 by the Permanent Commission for the South Pacific (A/46/225); 

(t) Letter dated 17 June 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Pakistan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(~/46/261-s/22714); 

(u) Letter dated 24 June 1991 from the representatives of Chile, 
Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the statement issued at Santiago 
on 17 June 1991 by the Permanent Commission for the South Pacific (A/46/276); 

(v) Letter dated 28 June 1991 from the Permanent Representative of Italy 
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/278-S/22745); 

(w) Letter dated 10 July 1991 from the Charges d'affaires of the 
Permanent Missions of Argentina and Brazil to the United Nations addressed to 
the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of resolution 271 (XII), adopted 
by the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the 
Caribbean at its twelfth regular session, entitled "Foz de Iguazfi Declaration 
on the joint nuclear policy of Argentina and Brazil", adopted on 9 May 1991 in 
Mexico City (A/46/297); 

(x) Letter dated 9 July 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, 
transmitting the text of the communique of the Political Consultative 
Committee of the Warsaw Treaty member States, which met at Prague on 
1 July 1991, and the respective Protocol on terminating the validity of the 
Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, signed at Warsaw on 
14 May 1955, and of the Protocol on extending its validity, signed at Warsaw 
on- 26 April 1985 (A/46/300-S/22782); 

(y) Letter dated 12 July 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Cameroon to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, 
transmitting the text of the Final Document adopted by the representatives Of 
the member States of the Economic Community of Central African States on 
confidence-building measures, security, disarmament and development in Central 
Africa, at the close of the subregional seminar-workshop of 17 to 21 June 1991 
organised in Yaounde (A/46/307-S/22805); 

(z) Letter dated 16 July 19,Ql from the representatives of Chile, 
Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the statement issued at Santiago 
on 8 July 1991 by the Permanent Commission for the South Pacific (A/46/314); 

(aa) Letter dated 22 July 1991 from the representatives of Chile, 
Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the statement issued at Santiago 
on 16 July 1991 by the Permanent Commission for the South Pacific (~/46/320); 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 5 

(bb) Letter dated 29 July 1991 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the 
Permanent Mission of Egypt to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/46/329-S/22855); 

(cc) Letter dated 5 August 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
.Vanuatu to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting 
the text of the final communique of the twenty-second South Pacific Forum, 
held at Palikir, Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia, on 29 and 
30 July 1991 (~1461344); 

(dd) Note verbale dated 26 August 1991 from the Permanent Mission of Peru 
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/397); 

(ee) Letter dated 11 September 1991 from the Permanent Representatives of 
Argentina, Brazil and Chile to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Joint Declaration on the 
Complete Prohibition of Chemical and Biological Weapons - Mendoza Accord, 
signed at Mendoza, Argentina, on 5 September 1991 (A/46/463); 

(ff) Letter dated 19 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Turkey to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting 
the text of the documents adopted by the Twentieth Islamic Conference of 
Foreign Ministers, held at Istanbul from 4 to 8 August 1991 (A/46/486-S/23055); 

(gg) Letter dated 23 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to 
the Secretary-General (A/46/493): 

(hh) Letter dated 12 August 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/501); 

(ii) Letter dated 27 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/46/501/Rev.l); 

(jj) Letter dated 18 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Belarus to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/582); 

(kk) Letter dated 11 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/46/592-5/23161); 

(11) Letter dated 23 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Chile to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting 
the text of the resolutions adopted by the 86th Conference of the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union, held at Santiago, Chile, from 7 to 12 October 1991 
(A/46/598-S/23166); 

(mm) Letter dated 8 November 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
the Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/46/621-S/23201); 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 6 

(nn) Letter dated 18 November 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/697): 

(00) Letter dated 25 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Sweden to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/46/3); 

(pp) Letter dated 2 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C!.1/46/4); 

(qq) Letter dated 7 October 1991 from the Charge d'affaires of the 
Permanent Mission of the Republic of Albania to the United Nations addressed 
to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/46/6); 

(rr) Letter dated 18 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
the United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/C.1/46/10); 

(ss) Letter dated 25 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of 
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/46/12), 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.5 

5. On 29 October 1991, Finland submitted a draft resolution entitled "Second 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of 
Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques" 
(A/C.1/46/L.5), which was later also sponsored by Aruentina and Costa Rica. 
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Finland at the 
28th meeting, on 6 November. 

6. At the 32nd meeting, on 8 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a 
statement concerning the programme budget implications of the draft resolution 
(see A/C.1/46/PV.32). 

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution ~/C.l/46/L.5 
without a vote (see para. 46, draft resolution A). 

B. Draft resolutions A1C.11461L.7 and Rev.1 

8. On 29 October, Brazil and Sweden submitted a draft resolution entitled 
"Study on charting potential uses of resources allocated to military 
activities for civilian endeavours to protect the environment" (A/C.1/46/L.7)* 

9. On 7 November, Bolivia, Brazil, Indonesia and Sweden submitted a revised 
draft resolution (A/C.1/46/L.7/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by 
Costa Rica and Urucruav. The draft resolution was introduced by the 
representative of Sweden at the 33rd meeting, on 11 November, The revised 
draft resolution contained the following changes: 



A/461673 
English 
Page 7 

(a) In operative paragraph 1, the words "Takes note with appreciation" 
were revised to read "Takes note"; 

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the words "to submit the report for 
further consideration" were revised to read "to submit the report"; 

(C) Operative paragraph 4, which had read: 

"Encouraoes Member States to give consideration to the 
recommendations in the report"; 

was revised to read: 

"Commends the study to the attention of all Member States". 

10. At its 34th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.7/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 46, draft 
resolution B). 

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.8 

11. On 30 October, Yusoslavia, on behalf of the States Members of the United 
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a 
draft resolution entitled "Relationship between disarmament and development", 
which was later also sponsored by Afqhanistan. The draft resolution was 
introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at the 30th meeting, on 
7 November. 

12. At its 32nd meeting, on 8 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.8 without a vote (see para. 46, draft resolution C). 

D. Draft decision A/C.1/46/L.10 

13. On 30 October, Peru submitted a draft decision entitled "Conventional 
disarmament on a regional scale" (A/C.1/46/L.l0), which was introduced by the 
representative of Peru at the 30th meeting, on 7 November. 

14. At its 32nd meeting, on 8 November, the Committee adopted draft decision 
A/C.1/46/L.10 without a vote (see para. 47, draft decision I). 

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.l1 

15. On 30 October, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belarus, 
Botswana, Cameroon, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Indonesia, Ireland, New Zealand, 
Norway, the Philippines, Romania, Samoa, Sweden, the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics and Uruquay submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of 
the production of fissionable material for weapons purposes" (A/C.1/46/L.l1), 
which was later also sponsored by Bolivia and Costa Rica. The draft 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 8 

resolution was introduced by the representative of Canada at the 30th meeting, 
on 7 November. 

16. At its 35th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A1C.11461L.11 by a recorded vote of 130 to 2, with 4 abstentions 
(see para. 46, draft resolution D). a/ 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, 
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, 
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, 
Costa Rica, Cdte d'fvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, 
Democratic People's Republic of Korea Denmark, Djibouti, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic 
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, 
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Rwanda, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Acrainst: France, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Argentina, China, India, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland. 

31 Subsequently, the delegation of Burundi indicated that it had 
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution. 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 9 

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.15 

11. On 30 October, Bulaaria. Canada. Niaeria and Sweden submitted a draft 
resolution entitled "Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling 
and use of radiological weapons", which was later also sponsored by Bolivia., 
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Canada at the 
30th meeting, on 7 November. 

18. At its 32nd meeting, on 8 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.15 without a vote (see para. 46, draft resolution E). 

G. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.17 

19. On 31 October, Austria, Belcium, Bolivia, Bulaaria. Cameroon, Canada, 
Chile f Colombia sta Rica t. Finland, 
France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea. Hunqary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, 
y Luxembour Ne al Netherlands Pakistan, 
Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portuqal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Spain, 
Sweden, Thailand, Turkev, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United 
Kincdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Urusuav submitted a draft 
resolution entitled "Regional disarmament, including confidence-building 
measures" (~/C.i/46/L. 171, which was later also sponsored by Afshanistan, 
Cvurus, the Reoublic of Korea. Samoa, the United States of America and 
Venezuela. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of the 
Netherlands at the 26th meeting, on 5 November. 

20. At its 34th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.17 without a vote (see para. 46, draft resolution F). 

H. Draft resolutions A/C.1/46/L.18 and Rev.1 

21. On 31 October, Belaium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italv, 
Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portusal, Spain and the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a draft resolution entitled 
"Transparency in armaments" (A/C.1/46/L.18), which was introduced by the 
representatives of the Netherlands and Japan at the 26th meeting, on 
5 November. The draft resolution read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Realizinq that regional tensions and conflict situations may be or 
have been aggravated by the excessive and destabilizing accumulation of 
arms, including conventional arms, giving rise to serious and urgent 
concerns, 

"Realizinq that excessive and destabilizing arms build-ups pose a 
threat to national, regional and international peace and security, 
particularly by aggravating tensions and conflict situations, 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 10 

“Notinq with satisfaction that recent agreements and measures in the 
field of arms limitation and disarmament have provided for qualitatively 
new standards of openness, 

"Considerinq that the current international environment makes it a 
propitious time to work towards easing tensions and a just resolution of 
conflict situations as well as more openness and transparency in military 
matters, 

"Recallinq the consensus among Member States on implementing 
confidence-building measures, including transparency and exchange of 
relevant information on armaments, likely to reduce the occurrence of 
dangerous misperceptions about the intentions of States and to promote 
trust among States, 

"Considerinq that increased openness and transparency in the field 
of armaments could enhance confidence, ease tensions, strengthen regional 
and international peace and security and could contribute to restraint in 
military production and the transfer of arms, 

"Realising the urgent need to resolve underlying conflicts, to 
diminish tensions and to accelerate efforts towards general and complete 
disarmament under strict and effective international control with a view 
to maintaining regional and international peace and security in a world 
free from the scourge of war and the burden of armaments, 

"Recallinq that in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session 
the General Assembly urged major arms supplier and recipient countries to 
consult on the limitation of all types of international transfer of 
conventional arms, 

"Stressinq the need to prevent by non-discriminatory measures 
destabilizing accumulation of conventional arms, 

"Disturbed by the destabilizing and destructive effects of the 
illicit arms trade, particularly for the internal situation of affected 
States and the violation of human rights, 

"Bearinq in mind that, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations, Member States have undertaken to promote the establishment and 
maintenance of international peace and security with the least diversion 
for armaments of the world's human and economic resources, and that the 
reduction of world military expenditures could have a significant 
positive impact for the social and economic development of all peoples! 

"Reaffirminq the important role of the United Nations in the field 
of disarmament and the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps 
in order to strengthen that role, 

"Recalling its resolution 43175 I of 7 December 1988, 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 11 

"Welcominq the study submitted by the Secretary-General L/ pursuant 
to paragraph 5 of resolution 43/75 I and prepared with the assistance of 
governmental experts, on ways and means of promoting transparency in 
international transfers of conventional arms as well as the problem of 
the illicit arms trade, taking into account views of Member States and 
other relevant information, 

"Recooniz&q the major contribution of an enhanced level of 
transparency in international transfers of conventional arms to 
confidence-building and security among States and also recognizing the 
urgent need to establish, as a first step in this direction, a universal 
and non-discriminatory register under the auspices of the United Nations 
for reporting by States on their arms transfers, as recommended by the 
study of the Secretary-General, 

"Stressinq the importance of greater transparency in the interest of 
promoting readiness to exercise restraint in international arms 
transfers, whether on a unilateral, bilateral or multilateral basis, 

"Considerinq that the standardized reporting to a United Nations 
arms transfer register will constitute another important step forward in 
the promotion of transparency in military matters, and as such will 
enhance the role and effectiveness of the United Nations in promoting 
arms limitation and disarmament, as well as in maintaining international 
peace and security, 

"Recoanizinq the importance of the prevention of the proliferation 
of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, 

"Reaffirminq the inherent right to individual or collective 
self-defence recognized in Article 51 of the Charter of the United 
Nations, which implies that States also have the right to acquire arms 
with which to defend themselves, 

"1. Recoonizes that an increased level of openness and transparency 
in the field of armaments would enhance confidence, promote stability, 
help States to exercise restraint, ease tensions and strengthen regional 
and international peace and security: 

"2 . Declares its determination to prevent the excessive and 
destabilizing accumulation of arms, including conventional arms, in order 
to promote stability and strengthen regional or international peace and 
Security, taking into account the legitimate security needs of States; 

"3 . Emphasizes that arms transfers in all their 
aspects deserve serious consideration by the international community, 
inter alia, because of: 

"IJ A/43/301. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 12 

"(a) Their potential effects in further destabilizing areas where 
tension and regional conflict threaten internatiOnal peace and security 
and national security: 

"(b) Their potentially negative effects on the progress of the 
peaceful social and economic development of all peoples; 

"(c) The danger of increasing illicit and covert arms trafficking; 

"4. Calls upon all Member States to exercise due restraint in 
exports and imports of conventional arms, particularly in situations of 
tension or conflict, and to ensure that they have in place an adequate 
body of laws and administrative procedures regarding the transfer of arms 
and to adopt strict measures for their enforcement; 

"5. Expresses its anoreciation to the Secretary-General for his 
study on ways and means of promoting transparency in international 
transfers of conventional arms; 11 

"6. Recruests the Secretary-General to establish and maintain at 
United Nations Headquarters in New York a universal and 
non-discriminatory Register of International Conventional Arms Transfers 
in accordance with the procedures and input requirements as set out in 
the annex to the present resolution; 

"7 . Also recruests the Secretary-General to establish a panel of 
governmental technical experts, to be nominated by him, to assist him in 
the elaboration - the results of which are to be presented at the 
beginning of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly - of the 
necessary technical procedures for the operation of the Register, notably 
the establishment of a standardized format for the reporting by Member 
States in accordance with the input requirements as set out in the annex 
to the present resolution: 

“8. Calls upon all Member States to provide annually information 
for the Register in accordance with the annex as well as in accordance 
with the results of the elaboration by the above panel of experts; 

“9. Decides to keep the procedures, input requirements and 
participation in the Register under review with a view to the possibility 
of supplementing the Register progressively by introducing measures t0 
promote transparency in other military matters, including military 
holdings and procurements and military doctrines; 

"10. Further invites Member States to provide to the 
Secretary-General their views on: 

'.'(a) The operation of the arms transfer Register during its first 
two years of operation: 

/ .  l .  



A/46/673 
English 
Page 13 

"(b) The possibility of supplementing the Register progressively by 
introducing measures to promote transparency in other military matters, 
including, inter alia, military holdings, procurement and military 
doctrines; and requests the Secretary-General to provide a compilation Of 
these views to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session; 

"11. Decides to identify and examine universal and 
non-discriminatory practical means to increase openness and transparency 
in the other interrelated aspects of the question of the excessive and 
destabilizing accumulation of arms, in particular military procurements 
and holdings: 

"12. Resuests the Conference on Disarmament to address the question 
of the interrelated aspects of the excessive and destabilizing 
accumulation of arms, in particular military procurements and holdings, 
and to elaborate universal and non-discriminatory practical means to 
increase openness and transparency in this field; 

"13. Further requests the Secretary-General to provide to the 
Conference on Disarmament all relevant information, including, 
inter alia, views submitted to him by Member States, information provided 
under the United Nations Standardized Reporting System on Military 
Expenditures, as well as the work of the United Nations Disarmament 
Commission under its item entitled "Objective information on military 
matters": 

"14. Further recruests the Conference on Disarmament to include in 
its annual report to the General Assembly a report of its work on this 
issue: 

"15. Invites all Member States,, in the meantime, to take measures on 
a national, regional and global basis, including within the appropriate 
forums, to promote transparency and openness on military matters; 

"16. Calls uoon all Member States to cooperate at a regional and 
subregional level, taking fully into account the specific conditions 
prevailing in the region or subregion, with a view to enhancing and 
coordinating international efforts aimed at increased openness and 
transparency in conventional arms transfers and other military matters: 

"17. Also calls uuon all Member States to exercise effective COntrOl 
of their arms imports and exports, and to cooperate at the international, 
regional and subregional levels, in order to curb the most disturbing and 
dangerous phenomenon of illicit trade in all kinds of arms, Often 
associated with terrorism, drug trafficking and organized crime: 

"18. Invites all Member States to inform the Secretary-General of 
their national arms export, import and procurement policies, legislation 
and administrative procedures, both as regards authorization of arms 
transfers and prevention of illicit transfers; 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 14 

"19. Further requests the Secretary-General to facilitate the 
holding of meetings and seminars at the national, regional and 
international levels, in an appropriate manner, with a view to: 

"(a) Promoting the concept of transparency as a confidence-building 
measure; 

"(b) Increasing the awareness of the destructive and destabilizing 
effects of the illicit traffic in arms and to exploring ways and means 
for its eradication: 

"(c) Increasing the understanding between Member States of each 
other's laws and administrative procedures in order to facilitate 
cooperation: 

"20. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on progress made in implementing 
the present resolution, including relevant information provided by Member 
States: 

,"21. Takes note of the need to consider the upgrading of the 
functioning of the United Nations Department for Disarmament Affairs, 
particularly its database system; 

"22. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its 
forty-seventh session an item entitled 'Transparency in armaments'. 

"Annex 

"Register of International Conventional Arms Transfers 

"1. The Register of International Conventional Arms Transfers ('the 
Register') shall be established, with effect from 1 January 1992, and 
maintained at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York. 

“2 * Member States are requested to provide information for the Register, 
addressed to the Secretary-General, on the number of items in the 
following categories of equipment imported into or exported from their 
territory: 

"I . Battle Tanks 

"A tracked or wheeled self-propelled armoured fighting vehicle 
with high cross-country mobility and a high level of 
self-protection weighing at least 16.5 metric tonnes unladen 
weight, with a high muzzle velocity direct fire main gun of at 
least 75 millimetres calibre. 

/ ..* 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 15 

"II. Armoured Combat Vehicles 

"A tracked or wheeled self-propelled vehicle with armoured 
protection and cross-country capability, either: (1) designed 
and equipped to transport a squad of 4 or more infantrymen, or 
(2) armed with an integral or organic weapon of at least 
20 millimetres calibre or an anti-tank missile launcher. 

"III. Large Calibre Artillery Systems 

"A gun, howitzer, artillery piece combining the characteristics 
of a gun or a howitzer, mortar or multiple launch racket 
system, capable of engaging surface targets by delivering 
primary indirect fire, with a calibre of 100 millimetres and 
above. 

"IV. Combat Aircraft 

"A fixed-wing or variable-geometry wing aircraft armed and 
equipped to engage targets by employing guided missiles, 
unguided rockets, bombs, guns, cannons, or other weapons of 
destruction. 

"V. Attack Helicopters 

"A rotary wing aircraft equipped to employ anti-armour, 
air-to-ground, or air-to-air guided weapons and equipped with 
an integrated fire control and aiming system for these weapons. 

“VI, Warships 

"A vessel or submarine with a standard displacement of 
850 metric tonnes or above, armed or equipped for military use. 

"VII. Missiles or Missile Svstems 

"A guided rocket, ballistic or cruise missile capable of 
delivering a payload to a range of at least 25 kilometres, or a 
vehicle, apparatus or device designed or modified for launching 
such munitions. 

"3 , Information on imports provided under paragraph 2 shall also specify 
the supplying State: information on exports shall also specify the 
recipient State. 

"4. Each Member State is requested to provide information on an annual 
basis by 30 April each year in respect of imports into and exports from 
their territory in the previous calendar year. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 16 

"5. The first such registration shall take place by 30 April 1993 in 
respect of the calendar year 1992. 

I I  6. The information so provided shall be recorded in respect of each 
Member State. 

"7 . Arms 'exports and imports' represent in the present resolution, 
including its annex, all forms of arms transfers under terms of grant, 
credit, barter or cash. 

“8. The Register shall be open for consultation by representatives of 
Member States at any time. 

"9. In addition, the Secretary-General shall provide annually a 
consolidated report to the General Assembly of the information 
registered." 

22. On 13 November, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Bulaaria, Canada, 
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germanv, Greece, Hunuarv. Iceland, 
Ireland, Italy, Jaoan, Luxembourq, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portuual, 
Romania. Suain. Sweden, Turkey, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the 
United Kinsdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela submitted a 
revised draft resolution (A/C.1/46/L.18/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored 
by Albania, Australia, Belarus. Costa Rica, Guinea, New Zealand, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal and the United States of America. The 
revised draft resolution, which was introduced by the representative of the 
Netherlands at the 35th meeting, on 14 November, read as follows: 

"The General Assemble, 

"Realizinq that excessive and destabilizing arms build-ups pose a 
threat to national, regional and international peace and security, 
particularly by aggravating tensions and conflict situations, giving rise 
to serious and urgent concerns, 

"Noting with satisfaction that the current international environment 
and.recent agreements and measures in the field of arms limitation and 
disarmament make it a propitious time to work towards easing tensions and 
a just resolution of conflict situations as well as more openness and 
transparency in military matters, 

"Recallinq the consensus among Member States on implementing 
confidence-building measures., including transparency and exchange of 
relevant information on armaments, likely to reduce the occurrence Of 
dangerous misperceptions about the intentions of States and to promote 
trust among States, 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 17 

"Considerinq that increased openness and transparency in the field 
of armaments could enhance confidence, ease tensions, strengthen regional 
and international peace and security and could contribute to restraint in 
military production and the transfer of arms, 

"Realizinq the urgent need to resolve underlying conflicts, to 
diminish tensions and to accelerate efforts towards general and complete 
disarmament under strict and effective international control with a view 
to maintaining regional and international peace and security in a world 
free from the scourge of war and the burden of armaments, 

"Recalling that in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session 
of the General Assembly I/ it urged major arms supplier and recipient 
countries to consult on the limitation of all types of international 
transfer of conventional arms, 

"Disturbed by the destabilizing and destructive effects of the 
illicit arms trade, particularly for the internal situation of affected 
States and the violation of human rights, 

"Bearina in mind that, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations, Member States have undertaken to promote the establishment and 
maintenance of international peace and security with the least diversion 
for armaments of the world's human and economic resources, and that the 
reduction of world military expenditures could have a significant 
positive impact for the social and economic development of all peoples, 

"Reaffirminq the important role of the United Nations in the field 
of disarmament and the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps 
in order to strengthen that role, 

"Recallinq its resolution 43/75 I of 7 December 1988, 

"Welcominq the study submitted by the Secretary-General 2/ pursuant 
to paragraph 5 of resolution 43/75 I and prepared with the assistance of 
governmental experts, on ways and means of promoting transparency in 
international transfers of conventional arms as well as the problem of 
the illicit arms trade, taking into account views of Member States and 
other relevant information, 

"Recoonizinq the major contribution of an enhanced level Of 
transparency in armaments to confidence-building and security among 
States and also recognizing the urgent need to establish, under the 
auspices of the United Nations, as a first step in this direction, a 

"JJ Resolution S-1012. 

"21 A/46/301. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 18 

universal and non-discriminatory Register to include data on 
international arms transfers as well as other interrelated information 
provided to the Secretary-General, 

"Stressinq the importance of greater transparency in the interest of 
promoting readiness to exercise restraint in accumulation of armaments, 

"Considerinq that the standardized reporting of internationa? arms 
transfers together with the provision of other interrelated information 
to a United Nations Register will constitute further important steps 
forward in the promotion of transparency in military matters, and as such 
will enhance the role and effectiveness of the United Nations in 
promoting arms limitation and disarmament, as well as in maintaining 
international peace and security, 

"Recoanizinq the importance of the prevent1 4 n of the proliferation 
of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, 

“1. Recoonizes that an increased level of openness and transparency 
in the field of armaments would enhance confidence, promote stability, 
help States to exercise restraint, ease tensions and strengthen regional 
and international peace and security: 

"2 . Declares its determination to prevent the excessive and 
destabilixing accumulation of arms, including conventional arms, in order 
to promote stability and strengthen regional or international peace and 
security, taking into account the Legitimate security needs of States and 
the principle of undiminished security at the lowest possible level of 
armaments; 

"3 . Reaffirms the inherent right to individual or collective 
self-defence recognized in Article 51 of the Charter of the United 
Nations, which implies that States also have the right to acquire arms 
with which to defend themselves; 

"4. Reiterates its conviction, as expressed in its resolution 
43/75 I, that arms transfers in all their aspects deserve serious 
consideration by the international community, inter alia, because of: 

"(a) Their potential effects in further destabilizing areas where 
tension and regional conflict threaten international peace and security 
and national security; 

"(b) Their potentially negative effects on the progress of the 
peaceful social and economic development of all peoples; 

"(c) The danger of increasing illicit and covert arms trafficking: 

"5, Calls upon all Member States to exercise due restraint in 
exports and imports of conventional arms, particularly in situations of 
tension or conflict, and to ensure that they have in place an adequate 

/ . * . 



A/46/613 
English 
Page 19 

body of lam and administrative procedures regarding the transfer of arms 
and to adopt strict measures for their enforcement; 

"6. Expresses its aPPreCiation to the Secretary-General for his 
study on ways and means of promoting transparency in international 
transfers of conventional arms, 
the illicit arms trade; 

21 which also addressed the problem of 

"7. Requests the Secretary-General to establish and maintain at 
United Nations Headquarters in fiew York a universal and 
non-discriminatory Register of Conventional Arms, to include . 
international arms transfers, in accordance with procedures and input 
requirements initially comprising those set out in the annex to the 
present resolution, as well as other interrelated information, 
particularly as referred to in paragraph 10 of the present resolution; 

"8. Also requests the Secretary-General to elaborate, with the 
assistance of a panel of governmental technical experts to be nominated 
by him on the basis of equitable geographical representation, the 
technical procedures necessary for the effective operation of the 
Register and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh 
session; 

"9, Calls upon all Member States to provide annually for the 
Register data on imports and exports of arms in accordance with the 
procedures established through paragraphs 7 and 8 of the present 
resolution: 

"10. Invites Member States also to provide to the Secretary-General, 
with their annual report on imports and exports of arms, available 
background information regarding their military holdings, procurement 
through national production and relevant policies: and reauests the 
Secretary-General to record this material and to make it available for 
consultation by Member States at their request: 

"11. Decides to keep the scope of and the participation in the 
Register under review and, to this end: 

"(a) Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with 
their views, not later than 30 April 1994, on: 

“(i) 

“(ii) 

The operation of the Register during its first two years: 

The addition of further categories of equipment and the 
elaboration of the Register to include military holdings and 
procurement through national prOduCtiOn; 

“(b) Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group 
of governmental experts convened in 1994 on the basis of equitable 
geographical representation, to prepare a report on the continuing 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 20 

operation of the Register and its further development, taking into 
account the views expressed by Member States and the work of the 
Conference on Disarmament as set forth in paragraphs 12 to 15 below, for 
submission to the General Assembly with a view to a decision at its 
forty-ninth session; 

"12. Resuests the Conference on Disarmament to address, as soon as 
possible, the question of the interrelated aspects of the excessive and 
destabilizing accumulation of arms, including military holdings and 

-procurement through national production, and to elaborate universal and 
non-discriminatory practical means to increase openness and transparency 
in this field; 

"13. Further resuests the Conference on Disarmament to address the 
problems of openness and transparency related to the transfer of high 
technology with military applications and to weapons of mass destruction: 

"14. Invites the Secretary-General to provide to the Conference on 
Disarmament all relevant information, including, inter alia, views 
submitted to him by Member States, information provided under the United 
Nations Standardised Reporting System on Military Expenditures, as well 
as the work of the United Nations Disarmament Commission under its item 
entitled 'Objective information on military matters'; 

"15. Reauests the Conference on Disarmament to include in its annual 
report to the General Assembly a report on its work on this issue; 

"16. Invites all Member States, in the meantime, to take measures on 
a national, regional and global basis, including withinthe appropriate 
forums, to promote openness and transparency in armaments; 

"17. Calls upon all Member States to cooperate at a regional and 
subregional level, taking fully into account the specific conditions 
prevailing in the region or subregion, with a view to enhancing and 
coordinating international efforts aimed at increased openness and 
transparency in armaments; 

"18. Invites all Member States to inform the Secretary-General of 
their national arms import and export policies, legislation and 
administrative procedures, both as regards authorization of arms 
transfers and prevention of illicit transfers: 

"19. Reauests the Secretary-General to report to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on progress made in implementing 
the present resolution, including relevant information provided by Member 
States: 

"20. Takes note of the fact that effective implementation of the 
present resolution will require an up-to-date database system in the 
United Nations Department for Disarmament Affairs; 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 21 

"21. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its 
forty-seventh session an item entitled 'Transparency in armaments'. 

"ANNEX 

"Register of Conventional Arms 

"1, The Register of Conventional Arms ('the Register') shall be 
established, with effect from 1'January 1992, and maintained at the 
Headquarters of the United Nations in New York, 

“2. Concerning international arms transfers: 

"(a) Member States are requested to provide data for the Register, 
addressed to the Secretary-General, on the number of items in the 
following categories of equipment imported into or exported from their 
territory: 

“I . Battle Tanks 

"A tracked or wheeled self-propelled armoured fighting vehicle 
with high cross-country mobility and a high level of 
self-protection weighing at least 16.5 metric tonnes unladen 
weight, with a high muzzle velocity direct fire main gun of at 
least 75 millimetres calibre. 

"II. Armoured Combat Vehicles 

"A tracked or wheeled self-propelled vehicle with armoured 
protection and cross-country capability, either: (1) designed 
and equipped to transport a squad of four or more infantrymen, 
or (2) armed with an integral or organic weapon of at least 
20 millimetres calibre or an anti-tank missile launcher. 

"III. Larqe Calibre Artillerv Svstems 

"A gun, howitzer, artillery piece combining the characteristics 
Of a gun or a howitzer, mortar or multiple launch rocket 
sys tern, capable of engaging surface targets by delivering 
primarily indirect fire, with a calibre of 100 millimetres and 
above. 

"IV. Combat Aircraft 

"A fixed-wing or variable-geometry wing aircraft,armed and 
equipped to engage targets by employing guided mlsslles, 
unguided rockets, bombs, guns, cannOns# or other weapons Of 
destruction. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 22 

“V, 

“VI. 

"VII. 

Attack Helicopters 

"A rotary wing aircraft equipped to employ anti-armour, 
air-to-ground, or air-to-air guided weapons and equipped with 
an integrated fire control and aiming system for these weapons. 

Warships 

"A vessel or submarine with a standard displacement of 
850 metric tonnes or above, armed or equipped for military use. 

Missiles or Missile Svstems 

"A guided rocket, ballistic or cruise missile capable of 
delivering a payload to a range of at least 25 kilometres, or a 
vehicle, apparatus or device designed or modified for launching 
such munitions. 

"(b) Data on imports provided under paragraph 2 shall also specify 
the supplying State: data on exports shall also specify the recipient 
State and the State of origin if not the exporting State; 

"(c) Each Member State is requested to provide data on an annual 
basis by 30 April each year in respect of imports into and exports from 
their territory in the previous calendar year: 

"(d) The first such registration shall take place by 30 April 1993 
in respect of the calendar year 1992: 

"(e) The data so provided shall be recorded in respect of each 
Member State; 

"(f) Arms 'exports and imports' represent in the present resolution, 
including its annex, all forms of arms transfers under terms of grant, 
credit, barter or cash. 

"3 . Concerning other interrelated information: 

"(a) Member States are invited also to provide to the 
Secretary-General available background information regarding their 
military holdings, procurement through national production, and relevant 
policies: 

"(b) The information so provided shall be recorded in respect of 
each Member State. 

"4 . The Register shall be open for consultation by representatives Of 
Member States at any time. 

/  . . I  



A/46/673 
English 
Page 23 

“5. In addition, the Secretary-General shall provide annually a 
consolidated report to the General Assembly of the data registered 
together with an index of the other interrelated information." 

23. On 14 November, EsVp submitted amendments (A/C.1/46/L.48) to draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.18/Rev.l. The amendments read as follows: 

"1. Replace operative paragraph 7 with the following: 

7. Requests the Secretary-General to establish and maintain at the 
Headquarters of the United Nations in New York a comprehensive, 
universal, non-discriminatory and voluntary International Register of 
Conventional Arms to include production and stockpiles, international 
transfers, and delivery systems as well as transfer of armaments 
technology; 

"2 , Replace operative paragraph 8 with the following: 

8. Also requests the Secretary-General to establish a panel of 
governmental esperts, in consultation with the regional groups and on the 
basis of equitable geographical distribution, to assist him in the 
elaboration of all the necessary procedures fox the initial 
implementation and operation of the Register, taking due account of the 
security interests of Member States and regional factors, and report at 
the beginning of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly: 

"3 . Replace operative paragraph 9 with the following: 

9. Invites all Member States to provide annually information for 
the Register in accordance with the decision of the General Assembly at 
the forty-seventh session on the report by the panel of governmental 
experts; 

Replace operative paragraph 10 with the following: 

10. Further invites Member States to provide to the 
Secretary-General their views on the operation of the Register during its 
first two years of operation and requests the Secretary-General to 
provide a compilation of these views to the General Assembly at the 
earliest opportunity; 

"4, Replace operative paragraph 11 with the following: 

11. Furthex requests the Secretary-General, in the interest of 
enhancing transparency and strengthening the Register, with the 
assistance of the panel of governmental experts to examine and recommend 
measures including the necessary operational procedure fox the 
incorporation into the Register of weapons of mass destruction, as well 
as new weapons currently under research and development, and report to 

/ l .  .  



A/46/673 
English 
Page 24 

the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session together with the views 
and comments of Member States; 

"5. Delete operative paragraphs 12 through 15." 

24. At the 37th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of the 
Netherlands orally revised draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.18/Rev.l, as follows: 

Operative paragraphs 7, 8, 10, 11 and 13 were revised to read: 

"7 . Requests the Secretary-General to establish and maintain at 
United Nations Headquarters in New York a universal and 
non-discriminatory Register of Conventional Arms, to include data on 
international arms transfers as well as information provided by Member 
States on military holdings, procurement through national production and 
relevant policies, as set out in paragraph 10 and in accordance with 
procedures and input requirements initially comprising those set out in 
the annex to the present resolution, and subsequently incorporating any 
adjustments to the annex decided upon by the General Assembly at its 
forty-seventh session in the light of the recommendations of the panel 
referred to in paragraph 8; 

"8. Also resuests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a 
panel of governmental technical experts to be nominated by him on the 
basis of equitable geographical representation, to elaborate the 
technical procedures and to make any adjustments to the annex to the 
present resolution necessary for the efffective operation of the 
Register, and to prepare a report on the modalities for early expansion 
of the scope of the Register by the addition of further categories of 
equipment and inclusion of data on military holdings and procurement 
through national production, and to report to the General Assembly at its 
forty-seventh session; 

"10. Invites Member States, pending the expansion of the Register, 
also to provide to the Secretary-General, with their annual report On 
imports and exports of arms, available background information regarding 
their military holdings, procurement through national production and 
relevant policies, and requests the Secretary-General to record this 
material and to make it available for consultation by Member States at 
their request; 

"11. Decides, with a view to future expansion, to keep the scope of 
and the participation in the Register under review, and, to this end: 

"(a) Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with 
their views, not later than 30 Apri1.1994, on: 

"(i) The operation of the Register during its first two years: 

/ . . * 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 25 

"(ii) The addition of further categories of equipment and the 
elaboration of the Register to include military holdings and 
procurement through national production; 

"(b) Resuests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group 
. of governmental experts convened in 1994 on the basis of equitable 

geographical representation, to prepare a report on the continuing 
operation of the Register and its further development, taking into 
account the work of the Conference on Disarmament, as set forth in 
paragraphs 12 to 15 below, and the views expressed by Member States for 
submission to the General Assembly with a view to a decision at its 
forty-ninth session; 

"13. Further requests the Conference on Disarmament to address the 
problems of, and the elaboration of practical means to increase, openness 
and transparency related to the transfer of high technology with military 
applications and to weapons of mass destruction, in accordance with 
existing legal instruments." 

5. At the request of the sponsor, no action was taken on the amendments 
ontained in document A/C.1/46/L.48 (see A1C.11461PV.37). 

6. In connection with draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.18/Rev.l, the 
ecretary-General submitted a statement on its programme budget implications 
A/C.1/46/L.49). 

7. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee read out a statement 
n behalf of the Secretary-General with respect to dra'ft resolution 
./C.1/46/L.18/Rev.l, as orally revised, and with respect to document 
./C.1/46/L.49, concerning the programme budget implications of the draft 
esolution (see A/C.1/46/PV.37). 

8. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
./C.1/46/L.18/Rev.l, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 106 to 1, with 

abstentions (see para, 46, draft resolution G). The voting was as fOllOws: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, 
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cape 
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, 
Congo, Costa Rica, C8te d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, 
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, 
France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyanar 
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy! 
Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesothop 
Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar) 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, 
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 26 

Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Togo, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of 
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Aaainst: Cuba. 

Abstaininq: China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iraq, Myanmar, 
Oman, Pakistan, Singapore, Sudan. 

I. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.22 

29. On 31 October, Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belqium. Bulqaria, Canada, 
Cvorus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Prance, Germanv, Greece, 
Hunaarv, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourq, the 
Netherlands, Norwav, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Snain, Sweden, Turkey, 
Ukraine, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kinqdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Yuqoslavia 
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Confidence- and security-building 
measures and conventional disarmament in Europe" (A/C.1/46/L.22), which was 
later also sponsored by Malta. The draft resolution was introduced by the 
representative of the Netherlands at the 29th meeting, on 6 November. 

30. At its 34th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft 
resolution A1C.11461L.22 without a vote (see para. 46, draft resolution H). 

/ . . . 



A/46/613 
English 
Page 27 

J. Draft resolutions A/C.1/46/L.23 and Rev.1 

31. On 1 November, Colombia and Peru submitted a draft resolution entitled 
"International arms transfers" (A/C.l/46/L,23), which tias introduced by the 
representative of Colombia at the 28th meeting, on 6 November. Draft 
resolution A/C.1/46/L.23 read as follows: 

"The General Assemblv, 

"Recocnizinq that the international transfer and production of 
conventional arms, including advanced weapons, delivery systems and 
military technology, as well as the illicit trade in arms, has in recent 
decades acquired a dimension and qualitative characteristics that give 
rise to serious and urgent concerns, 

"Realizinq the urgent need to resolve underlying Conflicts, to 
diminish tensions and to accelerate efforts towards general and complete 
disarmament with a view to maintaining regional and international peace 
and security in a world free from the scourge of war and the burden of 
armaments, 

"Recallinq that in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session 
of the General Assembly L/ it urged major arms recipient and supplier 
States to consult on the limitation of all types of international 
transfers of conventional arms, 

"Reaffirminq the central role of the United Nations in the field of 
disarmament and the commitment of Member States to take concrete Step in 
order to strengthen that role, 

"Greatly concerned by the illicit arms trade, a most disturbing and 
dangerous phenomenon, because of its destabilizinq and destructive 
effects, particularly for the internal situation of affected States, and 
the violation of human rights, 

"Realizinq that the illicit arms trade supplies the weapons most 
likely to be used in violent conflict, and that even small arms when 
transferred, directly or indirectly, to terrorist groups, drug 
traffickers or underground organizations can pose a danger to regional or 
international security and certainly to the security and political 
stability of the countries affected, 

"Considering that the illicit arms trade, representing a distinctly 
unique part of modern arms transfers practices, by its clandestine nature 
defies transparency and could not be dealt with by an arms transfers 
register, 

"Recalling its resolution 43/75 I of 7 December 19881 

"11 Resolution S-10/2. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 28 

"Welcominq the study submitted by the Secretary-General 21 pursuant 
to paragraph 5 of resolution 43/75 I and prepared with the assistance of 
governmental experts, on ways and means of promoting transparency in 
international transfers of conventional arms, as well as the problem of 
the illicit arms trade, 

“1. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the 
above-mentioned study; 

"2 , Calls upon all States to give high priority to eradicating the 
illicit trade in all kinds of weapons and military equipment, a most 
disturbing and dangerous phenomenon often associated with terrorism, drug 
trafficking, organized crime and mercenary and other destabilizing 
activities, and to take urgent action towards this end, as recommended in 
the study by the Secretary-General: 

"3 l Urses Member States to exercise effective control over their 
weapons and military equipment and their arms imports and exports to 
prevent them from getting into the hands of parties engaged in the 
illicit arms trade: 

"4 , Also urges Member States to ensure that they have in place an 
adequate body of laws and administrative machinery for regulating and 
monitoring effectively their transfers of arms, to strengthen or adopt 
strict measures for their enforcement, and to cooperate at the 
international, regional and subregional levels to harmonize relevant laws 
and administrative procedures as well as their enforcement measures, with 
the stated goal of eradicating the illicit arms trade according to the 
recommendation of the study; 

'15, Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with 
relevant information on their national arms export, import and 
procurement policies, legislation and administrative procedures, with 
regard to both authorization of arms transfers and prevention of illicit 
transfers; 

"6 . Calls uoon affected States to provide the Secretary-General 
with information regarding arms and military equipment, seized by 
authorities, destined for the use of terrorists, drug-traffickers and 
organized crime and for mercenary and other destabilizing activities; 

"7 . Requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary 
arrangements for information regarding paragraphs 5 and 6 of the present 
res.olution to be issued annually, as an official United Nations 
publication, and widely distributed: 

Ita . Also reouests the Secretary-General: 

"2/ A/46/301. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 29 

"(a) To assist in holding meetings and seminars at the natiOnalt 
regional and international levels, as pertinent, with a view to: 

"(i) Promoting the concept of transparency as a confidence-building 
measure: 

"(ii) Increasing the awareness of the destructive and destabilizing 
effects of the illicit traffic in arms and exploring ways and 
means for its eradication; 

“(iii) Promoting the development of internationally harmonized laws 
and administrative procedures relating to official arms 
procurement and arms transfers policies; 

"(b) To promote regional and international efforts to eradicate the 
illicit traffic in arms and provide advisory assistance to Member States, 
when so requested, on the recommended measures for enforcement of 
relevant rules and administrative procedures, including the training of 
customs and other officials; 

“9. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on progress made in implementing 
the present resolution; 

"10. Resuests the Disarmament Commission, at its organizational 
session in 1992, to include the issue of international arms transfers on 
the agenda of its substantive session in 1993; 

"11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its 
forty-seventh session the item entitled 'International arms transfers'." 

32. On 13 November, Afghanistan, Australia. Bolivia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, 
Costa Rica, Ecuador, India, New Zealand, Peru, the PhiliDnines, Samoa, Spain 
and Venezuela submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/46/L.23/Rev.l), 
which was later also sponsored by Italy. Panama and PaDua New Guinea. 

33. At the 37th meeting, on 15 November, the Secretary of the Committee made 
a statement concerning the programme budget implications of the draft 
resolution (see A/C.1/46/PV.37). 

34. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.1/46/L.23/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 46, draft resolution I), 

K. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.32 

35. On 1 November, Austria Be1 ium 1 
African Reoublic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica. Ecuador, EsvDt, Estonia, 
G erman hana inea-Bissa Lithuania, 
Madagascar. Mali. Nepal, the Netherlands. New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Papua 
<&Peru,Poland,aal, New inea Somalia, the Sudan, 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 30 

Suriname. Swaziland. Togo. Turkey, a Ukr ine, the United Kinsdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Urusuav and 
Venezuela submitted a draft resolution entitled "Regional disarmament" 
(A/C.1/46/L.32), which later was also sponsored by Bolivia. The draft 
resolution was introduced by the representative of Pakistan at the 34th 
meeting, on 12 November.. 

36. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.32 
by a recorded vote of 130 to none, with 5 abstentions (see para. 46, draft 
resolution J). The voting was as follows: A/ 

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, 
Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina 
Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, 
CBte d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, 
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, 
Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, 
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, 
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Korea, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United 
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, 
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe. 

Asainst: None. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Bhutan, Cuba, India, Lao People's Democratic 
Republic. 

41 Subseguently the delegations of Rwanda and Zaire indicated that they 
had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 31 

L. Draft resolution A1C.11461L.37 

7. On 1 November, Yucoslavia, on behalf of the States Members of the United 
ations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a 
raft resolution entitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations" 
A/C.1/46/L.37), which was introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at 
:he 30th meeting, on 7 November. 

18. At its 37th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft 
:esolution A/C.1/46/L.37 by a recorded vote of 109 to none, with 24 
abstentions (see para. 46, draft resolution K). The voting was as follows: s/ 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Benin, 
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalarn, 
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, 
C&e d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, 
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, 
Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,' 
Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's 
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, 
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, 
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, Ukraine, Union 
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Asainst: None. 

Abstaininq: Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, 
Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, 
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, 
Portugal, Romania, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

5f Subsequently, the delegations of Mauritania and Tunisia indicated 
that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution. 

/ ..* 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 32 

M. Draft decision A/C.1/46/L.39 

39. On 1 November, Peru submitted a draft decision entitled "Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons: 1995 Conference and its Preparatory 
Committee" (A/C.1/46/L.39), which was introduced by the representative of Peru 
at the 30th meeting, on 7 November. 

40. At the 32nd meeting, on 8 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a 
statement concerning the programme budget implications of the draft decision 
(see A/C.1/46/PV.32). 

41. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft decision without a 
vote (see para. 47, draft decision II). 

N. Draft resolutions A/C.1/46/L.40 and Rev.1 

42. On 1 November, Ethiopia, on behalf of the States Members of the United 
Nations that are members of the Group of African States, submitted a draft 
resolution entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes" 
(A/C.1/46/L.40). 

43. On 14 November, Gabon, on behalf of the States Members of the United 
Nations that are members of the Group of African States, submitted a revised 
draft resolution (A/C.1/46/L.40/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by 
Bolivia. The revised draft resolution was introduced by the representative of 
Gabon at the 35th meeting, on 14 November. 

44. The revised draft resolution (A/C.1/46/L.40/Rev.l) contained the 
following changes: 

(a) A new preambular paragraph was added as the third preambular 
paragraph, which reads: 

"Welcomina also resolution GC (XXXXV)/RES/530 establishing a Code of 
Practice on the International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive 
Wastes, adopted on 21 September 1990 by the General Conference of the 
International Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-fourth regular session"; 

(b) In the original fifth preambular paragraph, now the sixth preambular 
paragraph, the words "nuclear or" before "radioactive wastes" were deleted; 

(c) In operative paragraph 1, the phrase "relating to the dumping Of 
radioactive wastes under its Ad Hoc Committee on Radiological Weapons" was 
revised to read "relating to a future convention on the prohibition of 
radiological weapons"; 

(d) Operative paragraph 4, which had read: 

"4 . Requests the Conference on Disarmament to take into aCCOUntr in 
the ongoing negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of 
radiological weapons, the deliberate employment of nuclear wastes Or 

/ .  .  l 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 33 

dissemination of radioactive material, including radioactive wastes, for 
the purpose of causing injury, death, damage or destruction by means of 
the radiation produced by the decay of such material", 

s revised to read: 

'"4 . Resuests the Conference on Disarmament to take into account, in 
the ongoing negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of the 
radiological weapons, radioactive wastes as part of the scope of such a 
convention"; 

(e) The original operative paragraph 8 now became operative paragraph 5; 

(f) The original operative paragraph 6, now operative paragraph 7, which . 
d read: 

"6. Takes note also of the Code of Practice on the Transboundary 
Movement of Radioactive Wastes adopted by the International Atomic Energy 
Agency at its thirty-fourth General Conference, and expresses the hope 
that the effective implementation of the Code will enhance the protection 
of all States from the dumping of raqioactive wastes on their 
territories, as well as constitute the first step towards the adoption of 
a convention to prohibit such dumping", 

s revised to read: 

"7 , Expresses the hope that the effective implementation of the 
International Atomic Energy Agency Code of Practice on the International 
Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Wastes will enhance the protection 
of all States from the dumping of radioactive wastes on their 
territories"; 

(h) The original operative paragraph 7, now operative paragraph 8, which 
d read: 

"7 , Reauests the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue 
keeping the subject under active consdderation and to intensify efforts 
to conclude a legally binding instrument under its auspices on the 
effective prohibition of any dumping of radioactive or nuclear wastes to 
complement a muLtilateral convention on its prohibition in the Conference 
on Disarmament", 

s revised to read: 

“8 , Resuests the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue 
keeping the subject under active review, including the desirability of 
concluding a legally binding instrument in this field". 

. At its 36th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft 
solution A/C.1/46/L.40/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 46, draft 
solution L). 

/ .,. 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 34 

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

46. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft resolutions: 

General and complete disarmament 

A 

Second Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention 
C 

of Environmental Modification Techniques 

The General Assembly, 

Recallinq its resolution 31/72 of 10 December 1976, in which it referred 
the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of 
Environmental Modification Techniques to all States for their consideration, 
signature and ratification and expressed the hope for the widest possible 
adherence to the Convention, 

Notinq that paragraph 2 of article VIII of the Final Declaration of the 
First Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention, held in 
September 1984, provides that: 

"The Conference, recognizing the importance of the review mechanism 
provided in article VIII, decides that a second Review Conference may be 
held at Geneva at the request of a majority of States Parties not earlier 
than 1989. If no Review Conference is held before 1994 the Depositary is 
requested to solicit the views of all States Parties concerning the 
convening of such a Conference in accordance with article VIII, 
paragraph 3, of the Convention", g/ 

1. Notes that, as a result of consultations, a majority of States 
parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile 
Use of Environmental Modification Techniques have expressed their wish to 
convene the Second Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention in 
September 1992 and that, to that end, the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations, as Depositary of the Convention, will hold consultations with the 
parties to the Convention with regard to questions relating to the Conference 
and its preparation, including the establishment of a Preparatory Committee 
for the Conference; 

61 See First Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the 
Prohibition of Military or Anv Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification 
Techniuues, Final Document (ENMOD/CONF.1/13) (Geneva, 1984), part II. 

/ l .  .  



A/46/673 
English 
Page 35 

2. Requests the secretary-General to render the necessary assistance 
and to provide such services, including summary records, as may be required 
for the Review Conference and its preparation; 

3. Also notes that arrangements for meeting the costs of the Review 
Conference and its preparation are to be made by the Conference. 

B 

Studv on charting Potential uses of resources allocated to 
military activities for civilian endeavours to protect the 

environment 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling the report of the Secretary-General, I/ 

Desirous of benefiting from progress in disarmament within the endeavours 
to protect the environment, 

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General: 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit the report to the 
Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to arrange for the reproduction of 
the study as a United Nations publication and to give it the widest possible 
distribution; 

4. Commends the study to the attention of all Member States. 

C 

Relationshio between disarmament and development 

The General Assembly, 

Recallinq the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special 
Session of the General Assembly IJ/ related to the relationship between 
disarmament and development, 

2.1 A/46/364. 

I!/ Resolution S-1012. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 36 

Recalling also the adoption on 11 September 1987 of the Final Document of 
the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and 
Development, 9/ 

Stressinq the growing importance of the relationship between disarmament 
and development in current international relations, 

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General J&J/ and actions 
undertaken in accordance with the Final Document of the International 
Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development; 

2. Resuests the Secretary-General to continue to take action, through 
appropriate organs and within available resources, for the implementation of 
the action programme adopted at the International Conference; JJ/ 

3. Also resuests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the 
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session: 

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled "Relationship between disarmament and development". 

D 

Prohibition of the oroduction of fissionable material 
for weapons ouruoses 

The General Assembly, 

Recallinq its resolution 45158 L of 4 December 1990 and previous 
resolutions, in which it requested the Conference on Disarmament, at an 
appropriate stage of the implementation of the Programme of Action set forth 
in section III of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the 
General Assembly, &/ the first special session devoted to disarmament, and of 
its work on the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects”, to consider 
urgently the question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of the 
production of fissionable material for nuclear weapons and other nuclear 
explosive devices and to keep the Assembly informed of the progress of that 
consideration, 

91 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.1X.8. 

j.Jy A/46/527. 

jJ/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8, para. 35. 

/ . . < 



A/46/ 673 
English 
Page 37 

Notinq that the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament for 1991 included 
the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects" and that the programme of 
work of the Conference for all three parts of its 1991 session contained the 
item entitled "Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament", 121 

Recalling the proposals and statements made in the Conference on 
Disarmament on those items, uf 

Welcominq the improved relationship between the United States of America 
and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and their consequent announcements 
of significant measures, which could signal the reversal of the nuclear-arms 
race, 

Considerinq that the cessation of production of fissionable material for 
weapons purposes and the progressive conversion and transfer of stocks to 
peaceful uses would also be a significant step towards halting and reversing 
the nuclear-arms race, 

Considerincr also that the prohibition of the production of fissionable 
material for nuclear weapons and other explosive devices would be an important 
measure in facilitating the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons 
and explosive devices, 

1. Reauestq the Conference on Disarmament, under the item entitled 
"Nuclear weapons in all aspects", to continue to pursue its consideration of 
the question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of the 
production of fissionable material for nuclear weapons and other nuclear 
explosive devices and to keep the General Assembly informed of the progress of 
that consideration: 

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session an item entitled "Prohibition of the production of fissionable 
material for weapons purposes". 

121 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fortv-sixth Session, 
Suuplement No. 27 (A/46/27), para. 6. 

131 Ibid., paras. 23-62. 

/ *.. 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 38 

E 

Prohibition of the develooment, oroduction, stockoilinq 
and use of radiolocrical weaoons 

The General Assembly, 

Recallinq its resolution 45/58 I? of 4 December 1990, 

1. Takes note of the part of the report of the Conference on 
Disarmament on its 1991 session that deals with the question of radiological 
weapons, in particular the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Radiological 
Weapons: 141 

2. Recognizes that in 1991 the Ad Hoc Committee made a further 
contribution to the clarification and better understanding of different 
approaches that continue to exist with regard to both of the important matters 
under consideration: 

3. Takes note also of the recommendation of the Conference on 
Disarmament that the Ad Hoc Committee on Radiological Weapons should be 
re-established at the beginning of its 1992 session: 

4. Reauests the Conference on Disarmament to continue its substantive 
negotiation on the subject with a view to the prompt conclusion of its work, 
taking into account all proposals presented to the Conference to this end and 
drawing upon the annexes to the report of the Ad Hoc Committee as a basis of 
its future work, the result of which should be submitted to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session; 

5. Recruests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on 
Disarmament all relevant documents relating to the discussion of all aspects 
of the issue by the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session; 

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled "Prohibition of the development, production, 
stockpiling and use of radiological weapons". 

141 Ibid., para. 95. 

/ ,.. 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 39 

F 

Raoional disarmament. includina confidence-buildins measures 

The General Assemblv, 

Recallinq its resolutions 441116 S, 441116 U and 44/117 B of 
15 December 1989 and 45158 M and 45158 P of 4 December 1990, 

Considerinq that the adoption'of regional disarmament measures is one of 
the most effective means by which States can contribute to international 
security, arms limitation and disarmament, 

Recoqnizinq that the regional and global approaches to disarmament 
complement each other and can be pursued simultaneously in the promotion of 
regional and international peace and security, 

Notinq that the recent events in the Middle East have underlined the 
importance of regional disarmament and that they justify in particular the 
search for a balanced and comprehensive control of armaments in the region, 
notably through a dialogue among the States of that region, 

Convinced that disarmament can be carried out only in a climate of 
confidence based on mutual respect and aimed at ensuring better relations 
founded on justice, solidarity and cooperation, 

Notinq that the consumption of resources for potentially destructive 
purposes is in stark contrast to the need for social and economic development 
but that reduction in military expenditure following, inter alia, the 
conclusion of regional disarmament agreements could entail benefits in both 
the social and economic fields, 

Considerinq that regional disarmament measures should be aimed at 
establishing a military balance at the lowest level while not diminishing the 
security of each State and at eliminating as a matter of priority the 
capability for large-scale offensive action and surprise attacks, 

Notinq that disarmament measures in one region should not lead to 
increased arms transfers to other regions, 

Considerinq that measures of transparency are one of the essential 
elements in the implementation of regional disarmament, 

Persuaded that verification measures are important to ensure compliance 
with regional agreements on arms control and disarmament, 

1. Reaffirms that the regional approach to disarmament is One of the 
essential elements in the global process of disarmament; 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 40 

2. IS convinced of the importance and effectiveness Of regional 
disarmament measures taken at the initiative of States of the region and with 
the participation of all States concerned and taking into account the specific 
characteristics of each region, in that they can contribute to the security 
and stability of all States, in accordance with the principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations, and in compliance with international law and existing 
treaties: 

3. Stresses the importance of confidence-building measures in ensuring 
the success of this process: 

4. Notes with satisfaction the important progress made in various 
regions of the world through the conclusion of peace, security and cooperation 
agreements and following from the implementation of measures intended to 
enhance confidence in the fields of political, economic and military 
cooperation; 

5. Affirms that regional and subregional agreements on arms control and 
disarmament can contribute to the peaceful settlement of disputes and 
conflicts: 

6. Recoanizes the useful role played by the regional centres of the 
United Nations: 

7. Encouraaes States of the same region to examine the possibility of 
creating, on their own initiative, regional mechanisms and/or institutions for 
the establishment of measures in the framework of an effort of regional 
disarmament or for the prevention and the peaceful settlement of disputes and 
conflicts with the assistance, if requested, of the United Nations; 

8. Stresses that confidence-building measures, including objective 
information on military activities and capabilities, are essential to the 
promotion of arms control and disarmament at the regional level; 

9. Believes that regional initiatives should enjoy the support of all 
States of the region concerned and the respect of those outside that region; 

10. Invites and encourages all States to conclude, whenever possible, 
agreements on disarmament and confidence-building measures at the regional 
level. 

G 

TransDarencv in armaments 

The General Assemblv, 

Realizinq that excessive and destabilizing arms build-ups pose a threat 
to national, regional and international peace and security, particularly by 
aggravating tensions and conflict situations, giving rise to serious and 
urgent concerns, 



A/46/673 
English 
page 41 

Noting with satisfaction that the current international environment and 
recent agreements and measures in the field of arms limitation and disarmament 
make it a propitious time to work towards easing tensions and a just 
resolution Of Conflict Situations aS Well aS more openness and transparency in 
military matters, 

Recallinq the consensus among Member States on implementing 
conf-idence-building measures, including transparency and exchange of relevant 
information on armaments, likely to reduce the occurrence of dangerous 
misperceptions about the intentions' of States and to promote trust among 
States, 

Considerinq that increased openness and transparency in the field of 
armaments could enhance confidence, ease tensions, strengthen regional and 
international peace and security and could contribute to restraint in military 
production and the transfer of arms, 

Realizinq the urgent need to resolve underlying conflicts, to diminish 
tensions and to accelerate efforts towards general and complete disarmament 
under strict and effective international control with a view to maintaining 
regional and international peace and security in a world free from the scourge 
of war and the burden of armaments, 

Recallinq that in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the 
General Assembly &/ it urged major arms supplier and recipient countries to 
consult on the limitation of all types of international transfer of 
conventional arms, 

Disturbed by the destabilising and destructive effects of the illicit 
arms trade, particularly for the internal situation of affected States and the 
violation of human rights, 

Bearins in mind that, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations, Member States have undertaken to promote the establishment and 
maintenance of international peace and security with the least diversion for 
armaments of the world's human and economic resourcesI and that the reduction 
Of world military expenditures could have a significant positive impact for 
the social and economic development of all peoples, 

Reaffirminq the important role of the United Nations in the field Of 
disarmament and the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps in 
order to strengthen that role, 

Recallinq its resolution 43/75 I of 7 December 1988, 

Welcominq the study submitted by the Secretary-General 15' Pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of resolution 43/75 I and prepared with the assistance Of 

JJ/ A/46/301. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 42 

governmental experts, on ways and means of promoting transparency in 
international transfers of conventional arms, as wel.1 as the problem of the 
illicit arms trade, taking into account views of Member States and other 
relevant information, 

Recogniainq the major contribution of an enhanced level of transparency 
in armaments to confidence-building and security among States and also 
recognising the urgent need to establish, under the auspices of the United 
Nations, as a first step in this direction, a universal and non-discriminatory 
Register to include data on international arms transfers as well as other 
interrelated information provided to the Secretary-General, 

Stressinq the importance of greater transparency in the interest of 
promoting readiness to exercise restraint in accumulation of armaments, 

Considerinq that the standardised reporting of international arms 
transfers together with the provision of other interrelated information to a 
United Nations Register will constitute further important steps forward in the 
promotion of transparency in military matters and, as such, will enhance the 
role and effectiveness of the United Nations in promoting arms limitation and 
disarmament, as well as in maintaining international peace and security, 

Recosnizinq the importance of the prevention of the proliferation of 
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, 

1. Recoonizes that an increased level of openness and transparency in 
the field of armaments would enhance confidence, promote stability, help 
States to exercise restraint, ease tensions and strengthen regional and 
international peace and security: 

2. Declares its determination to prevent the excessive and 
destabilising accumulation of arms, including conventional arms, in order to 
promote stability and strengthen regional or international peace and security, 
taking into account the legitimate security needs of States and the principle 
of undiminished security at the lowest possible level of armaments; 

3. Reaffirms the inherent right to individual or collective 
self-defence recognized in Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, 
which implies that States also have the right to acquire arms with which to 
defend themselves; 

4. Reiterates its conviction, as expressed in its resolution 43115 1, 
that arms transfers in all their.aspects deserve serious consideration by the 
international community, inter alia, because of: 

(a) Their potential effects in further destabilizing areas where tension 
and regional conflict threaten international peace and security and national 
security; 



~/46/673 
English 
Page 43 

(b) Their potentially negative effects on the progress of the peaceful 
social and economic development of all peoples; 

(c) The danger of increasing illicit and covert arms trafficking: 

5. Calls upon all Member States to exercise due restraint in exports 
and imports of conventional arms, particularly in situations of tension Or 
confiict, and to ensure that they have in place an adequate body of laws and 
administrative procedures regarding the transfer of arms and to adopt strict 

' measures for their enforcement; 

6. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his study on 
ways and means of promoting transparency in international transfers of 
conventional arms, s/ which also addressed the problem of the illicit arms 
trade; 

7. Requests the Secretary-General to establish and maintain at United 
Nations Headquarters in New York a universal and non-discriminatory Register 
of Conventional Arms, to include data on international arms transfers as Well 
as information provided by Member States on military holdings, procurement 
through national production and relevant policies, as set out in paragraph 10 
and in accordance with procedures and input requirements initially comprising 
those set out in the annex to the present resolution, and subsequently 
incorporating any adjustments to the annex decided upon by the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session in the light of the recommendations of 
the panel referred to in paragraph 8; 

8. Also requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a panel 
of governmental technical experts to be nominated by him on the basis of 
equitable geographical representation, to elaborate the technical procedures 
and to make any adjustments to the annex to the present resolution necessary 
for the effective operation of the Register, and to prepare a report on the 
modalities for early expansion of the scope of the Register by the addition of 
further categories of equipment and inclusion of data on military holdings and 
procurement through national production, and to report to the General Assembly 
at its forty-seventh session: 

9. Calls upon all Member States to provide annually for the Register 
data on imports and exports of arms in accordance with the procedures 
established by paragraphs 7 and 8 of the present resolution: 

10. Invites Member States, pending the expansion of the Register, also 
to provide to the Secretary-General, with their annual report on imports and 
exports of arms, available background information regarding their military 
holdings, procurement through national production and relevant policies, and 
requests the Secretary-General to record this material and to make it 
available for consultation by Member States at their request: 

11. Decides, with a view to future expansion, to keep the scope of and 
the participation in the Register under review, and, to this end: 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 44 

(a) Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with their 
views, not later than 30 April 1994, on: 

(i) The operation of the Register during its first two years; 

(ii) The addition of further categories of equipment and the elaboration 
of the Register to include military holdings and procurement through 
national production: 

(b) Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group of 
governmental experts convened in 1994 on the basis of equitable geographical 
representation, to prepare a report on the continuing operation of the 
Register and its further development, taking into account the work of the 
Conference on Disarmament, as set forth in paragraphs 12 to 15 below, and the 
views expressed by Member States for submission to the General Assembly with a 
view to a decision at its forty-ninth session: 

. 

12. Resuests the Conference on Disarmament to address, as soon as 
possible, the question of the interrelated aspects of the excessive and 
destabilizing accumulation of arms, including military holdings and 
procurement through national production, and to elaborate universal and 
non-discriminatory practical means to increase openness and transparency in 
this field; 

13. Further requests the Conference on Disarmament to address the 
problems of, and the elaboration of practical means to increase, openness and 
transparency related to the transfer of high technology with military 
applications and to weapons of mass destruction, in accordance with existing 
legal instruments; 

14. Invites the Secretary-General to provide to the Conference on 
Disarmament all relevant information, including, inter alia, views submitted 
to him by Member States, information provided under the United Nations 
Standardized Reporting System on Military Expenditures, as well as the work Of 
the United Nations Disarmament Commission under its item entitled "Objective 
information on military matters": 

15. Reouests the Conference on Disarmament to include in its annual 
report to the General Assembly a report on its work on this issue: 

16. Invites all Member States, in the meantime, to take measures on a 
national, regional and global basis, including within the appropriate forums, 
to promote openness and transparency in armaments; 

17. Calls uoon all Member States to cooperate at a regional and 
subregional level, taking fully into account the specific conditions 
prevailing in the region or subregion, with a view to enhancing and 
coordinating international efforts aimed at increased openness 'and 
transparency in armaments; 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 45 

18. Invites' all Member States to inform the Secretary-General of their 
national arms import and export policies, legislation and administrative 
procedures, both as regards authorization of arms transfers and prevention of 
illicit transfers; 

19. Resuests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session on progress made in implementing the present 
reshution, including relevant information provided by Member States: 

20. Takes note of the fact that effective implementation of the present 
resolution will require an up-to-date database system in the United Nations 
Department for Disarmament Affairs: 

21. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session an item entitled "Transparency in armaments". 

ANNEX 

Reaister of conventional arms 

1. The Register of Conventional Arms ("the Register") shall be established, 
with effect from 1 January 1992, and maintained at the Headquarters of the 
United Nations in New York. 

2. Concerning international arms transfers: 

(a) Member States are requested to provide data for the Register, 
addressed to the Secretary-General, on the number of items in the following 
categories of equipment imported into or exported from their territory: 

I. Battle tanks 

A tracked or wheeled self-propelled armoured fighting vehicle with 
high cross-country mobility and a high level of self-protection, 
weighing at least 16.5 metric tonnes unladen weight, with a high 
muzzle velocity direct fire main gun of at least 75 millimetres 
calibre. 

II. Armoured combat vehicles 

A tracked or wheeled self-propelled vehicle, with armoured 
protection and cross-country capability, either: (a) designed and 
equipped to transport a squad of four or more infantrymen, or 
(b) armed with an integral or organic weapon of at least 
20 millimetres calibre or an anti-tank missile launcher. 

/ . . * 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 46 

III. 

IV. 

v. 

VI. 

VII. 

Laroe calibre artillery svstems 
_ 

A gun, howitzer, artillery piece, combining the characteristics of a 
gun or a howitzer, mortar or multiple-launch rocket system, capable 
of engaging surface targets by delivering primarily indirect fire, 
with a calibre of 100 millimetres and above. 

Combat aircraft 

A fixed-wing or variable-geometry wing aircraft armed and equipped 
to engage targets by employing guided missiles, unguided rockets, 
bombs, guns, cannons, or other weapons of destruction. 

Attack helicopters 

A rotary-wing aircraft equipped to employ anti-armour, 
air-to-ground, or air-to-air guided weapons and equipped with an 
integrated fire control and aiming system for these weapons. 

Warshios 

A vessel or submarine with a standard displacement of 
850 metric tonnes or above, armed or equipped for military use. 

Missiles or missile systems 

A guided rocket, ballistic or cruise missile capable of delivering a 
payload to a range of at least 25 kilometres, or a vehicle, 
apparatus or device designed or modified for launching such 
munitions. 

(b) Data on imports provided under paragraph 2 shall also specify the 
supplying State; data on exports shall also s$ecify the recipient State and 
the State of origin if not the exporting State; 

(c) Each Member State is requested to provide data on an annual basis by 
30 April each year in respect of imports into and exports from their territory 
in the previous calendar year; 

(d) The first such registration shall take place by 30 April 1993 in 
respect of the calendar year 1992; 

(e) The data so provided shall be recorded in respect of each Member 
State: 

(f) Arms "exports and imports" 
including its annex, 

represent in the present resolution, 
all forms of arms transfers under terms of grant, credit, 

barter or cash. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 47 

* Concerning other interrelated information: 

(a) Member States are invited also to provide to the Secretary-General 
vailable background information regarding their military holdings, 
rocurement through national production, and relevant policies; 

(b) The information so provided shall be recorded in respect of each 
amber State. 

. The Register shall be open for consultation by representatives of Member 
tates at any time. 

. In addition, the Secretary-General shall provide annually a consolidated 
eport to the General Assembly of the data registered, together with an index 
f the other interrelated information. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 48 

H 

Confidence- and securitv-buildina measures and conventional 
disarmament in Europe 

The General Assembly, 

Determined to achieve progress in disarmament, 

Stressinq that confidence-building and disarmament measures have a 
positive impact on international security and are facilitated by the reduction 
of tensions, 

Taking note of the work accomplished in 1991 by the Disarmament 
Commission within the framework of the Working Groups on its agenda items 4 
and 6, 161 

Exnressina the hone that the improved international climate will 
facilitate the necessary efforts to build confidence, to lessen the risk of 
military confrontation and to enhance mutual security, 

Recallinq its resolutions 43/75 P of 7 December 1988, 44/116 I of 
15 December 1989 and 45158 I of 4 December 1990, 

Reaffirminq the great importance of increasing security and stability in 
Europe through the establishment of a stable, secure and verifiable balance of 
conventional armed forces at lower levels, as well as through increased 
openness and predictability of military activities, 

Considerinq that the positive results of the negotiations on confidence- 
and security-building measures, as well as of those on conventional armaments 
and forces, both within the framework of the Conference on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, have considerably increased confidence and improved 
security and cooperation in Europe, thereby contributing to international 
peace and security, 

Welcominq the prospects for the early implementation of the measures 
agreed upon and the continuation of negotiations in these fields among the 
States participating in the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, 

1. Notes with satisfaction the progress achieved so far in the process 
of disarmament and the strengthening of confidence and security in Europe; 

2. Welcomes the determination of the States signatories of the Treaty 
on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe fully to implement its provisions and 

161 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fortv-sixth Session, 
Suvolement No. 42 (A/46/42), paras. 39 and 41. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 49 

the determination of all the States participating in the Conference on 
Security and Cooperation in Europe fully to implement the provisions of the 
Vienna Document on confidence- and security-building measures, as well as the 
decision of these States to continue negotiations in these fields; 

3. Invites all States to consider the possibility of taking appropriate 
measures with a view to reducing the risk of confrontation and strengthening 
security, taking due account of their specific regional conditions. 

I 

International arms transfers 

The General Assembly, 

Realizinq the urgent need to resolve underlying conflicts, to diminish 
tensions and to accelerate efforts towards general and complete disarmament 
with a view to maintaining regional and international peace and security in a 
world free from the scourge of war and the burden of armaments, 

Recosnizinq that the international transfer and production of 
conventional arms, including advanced weapons, delivery systems and military 
technology, has in recent decades acquired a dimension and qualitative 
characteristics that can give rise to serious and urgent concerns, 

Greatly concerned by the illicit arms trade, a most disturbing and 
dangerous phenomenon, because of its destabilizing and destructive effects, 
particularly for the internal situation of affected States and the violation 
of human rights, 

Recallinq that in paragraph 85 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special 
Session of the General Assembly &/ it urged major arms recipient and supplier 
States to consult on the limitation of all types of international transfers of 
conventional arms, 

Reaffirminq the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament 
and the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps in order to 
strengthen that role, 

Realizinq that arms obtained through the illicit arms trade are most 
likely to be used for violent purposes, and that even small arms when so 
Obtained, directly or indirectly, by terrorist groups, drug traffickers or 
underground organizations can pose a danger to regional and international 
Security, and certainly to the security and political stability of the 
countries affected, 

Considering that the illicit arms trade, representing a distinctly unique 
phenomenon, by its clandestine nature defies transparency and could not be 
dealt with by an arms transfers register, 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 50 

Recalling its resolution 43/75 I of 7 December 1988, 

Welcoming the study of the Secretary-General, submitted pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of resolution 43/75 I and prepared with the assistance of 
governmental experts, on ways and means of promoting transparency in 
international transfers of conventional arms, as well as the problem of the 
illicit arms trade, 

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the 
above-mentioned study; 

2. Calls upon all States to give high priority to eradicating the 
illicit trade in all kinds of weapons and military equipment, a most 
disturbing and dangerous phenomenon often associated with terrorism, drug 
trafficking, organized crime, mercenary and other destabilizing activities, 
and to take urgent action towards this end, as recommended in the study by the 
Secretary-General: 

3. Urses Member States to exercise effective control over their weapons 
and military equipment, their arms imports and exports to prevent them from 
getting into the hands of parties engaged in the illicit arms trade: 

4, Also uroes Member States to ensure that they have in place an 
adequate body of laws and administrative machinery for regulating and 
monitoring effectively their transfer of arms, to strengthen or adopt strict 
measures for their enforcement, and to cooperate at the international, 
regional and subregional levels to harmonize, where appropriate, relevant 
laws, regulations and administrative procedures as well as their enforcement 
measures, with the goal of eradicating the illicit arms trade as stated in the 
recommendation of the study; 

5. Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with relevant 
information on their national legislation and/or regulations on arms exports, 
imports and procurement, and administrative procedures, as regards both 
authorization of arms transfers and prevention of illicit arms trade; 

6. Calls upon affected States to provide the Secretary-General, in 
accordance with national judicial procedures, information regarding arms and 
military equipment, seized by authorities, destined for the use of terrorists, 
drug traffickers, organized crime and for mercenary and other destabilizing 
activities, when this would assist the eradication of illicit arms trade; 

7. Recruests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements to 
make available for consultation by Member States the information referred to 
in paragraph 5, and to publish the information provided in connection with 
paragraph 6 of the present resolution: 

a. Also reauests the Secretary-General to assist, upon request and 
within available resources, in holding meetings and seminars at the national, 
regional and international levels, as pertinent, with a view to: 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 

Page 51 

(a) Promoting the concept of transparency as a confidence-building 
measure; 

(b) Increasing the awareness of the destructive and destabilixing 
effects of the illicit traffic in arms and to exploring ways and means for its 
eradication: 

(c) Promoting the development of internationally harmonized laws and 
administrative procedures relating to official arms procurement and arms 
transfer policies: 

(d) Promoting regional and international efforts to eradicate the 
illicit traffic in arms and providing advisory assistance to Member States, 
when so requested, on measures for enforcement of relevant rules and 
administrative procedures as recommended in the study, with a view to, 
inter alia, facilitating cooperation between Member States in the training of 
their customs and other appropriate officials: 

9. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on progress made in implementing the 
present resolution: 

10. Resuests the Disarmament Commission, at its organisational session 
in 1992, to consider including the issue of international arms transfers in 
the agenda of its substantive session in 1993; 

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled " International arms transfers". 

J 

Resional disarmament 

The General Assemblv, 

Recallinq its resolution 45/58 P of 4 December 1990 on regional 
disarmament, 

Believinq that the efforts of the international community to move towards 
the ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human 
desire for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war 
and the release of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful 
pursuits, 

Affirminq the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in the conduct of 
their international relations, 

Notinq that essential guidelines for progress towards general and 
complete disarmament were adopted at the tenth special session of the General 
Assembly, & 

/ ..* 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 52 

Welcominq the prospects of genuine progress in the field Of disarmament 
engendered in recent years as a result of negotiations between the two 
super-Powers, 

Takina note of the recent proposals for disarmament and nuclear 
non-proliferation at the regional and subregional levels, 

Recoqnizinq the importance of confidence-building measures for regional 
and international peace and security, 

Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament, 
taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in 
accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of 
armaments, would enhance the security of smaller States and would thus 
contribute to international peace and security by reducing the risk of 
regional conflicts, 

1. Stresses that sustained efforts are needed, within the framework of 
the Conference on Disarmament and under the umbrella of the United Nations, to 
make progress on the entire range of disarmament issues; 

2. Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament 
complement each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to 
promote regional and international peace and security: 

3. Calls upon_ States to conclude agreements, wherever possible, for 
nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and confidence-building measures at 
regional and subregional levels: 

4. Welcomes the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear 
non-proliferation and security undertaken by some countries at the regional 
and subregional levels; 

5. Suooorts and encourages efforts aimed at promoting 
confidence-building measures at regional and subregional levels in order t0 
ease regional tensions and to further disarmament and nuclear 
non-proliferation measures at regional and subregional levels; 

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled "Regional disarmament", 

/ l .  .  



A/46/673 
English 
Page 53 

K 

Bilateral nuclear-arms neootiations 

The General Assembly, 

Recallinq its previous relevant resolutions, -, 

Mindful that it is the responsibility and obligation of all States to 
ntribute to the process of the relaxation of tension and to the 
.rengthening of international security, 

Stressinq the importance of the strengthening of international security 
trough disarmament and the halting of the qualitative and quantitative 
icalation of the arms race, 

Stressinu also that general and complete disarmament under effective 
iternational control is by its very nature unattainable unless all States 
ive the responsibility and join in adopting and implementing measures towards 
iat objective, 

Emohasizinq that nuclear disarmament and the prevention of nuclear war 
jmains one of the principal tasks of our times, 

Concerned that the world is still threatened by the significant nuclear 
rsenals, and that the primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament rests 
ith the nuclear-weapon States, in particular those which possess the largest 
Aclear arsenals, with the objective of the total elimination of nuclear 
3apons, 

Notino with satisfaction the positive developments in the current 
nternational scene, in particular the cooperation between the Union of Soviet 
Xialist Republics and the United States of America, which contributes to the 
recess of general and complete disarmament and the strengthening of 
nternational security, t 

Recallinq that, at their meeting in Washington in 1990, the leaders of 
he two major nuclear Rowers, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the 
nited States of America, agreed to pursue, among other efforts, new talks on 
he relationship between strategic offensive and defensive arms, 

Welcominq the decision of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to 
uspend all nuclear tests throughout the next twelve months as a contribution 
Dwards the achievement of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, 

Convinced that the international community should encourage the 
overnment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of 
he United States of America in their endeavours in the process leading to the 
omplete elimination of nuclear weapons, 

/ l .  .  



A/46/613 
English 
Page 54 

Affirming that bilateral and multilateral negotiations on disarmament 
should facilitate and complement each other, 

1. Expresses its satisfaction at the continued implementation of the 
Treaty between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States 
of America on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range 
Nuclear Missiles, u/ in particular at the completion by both parties of the 
destruction of all their declared missiles subject to elimination under the 
Treaty; 

2. Welcomes also the signing of the Treaty on the Reduction and 
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms by the President of the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics and the President of the United States of America in 
Moscow on 31 July 1991: 

3. Also welcomes the unilateral decision announced by the President of 
the United States of America on 27 September 1991, significantly to reduce the 
size and nature of United States nuclear deployments worldwide and to enhance 
stability, as well as the similar steps announced by the President of the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on 5 October 1991, in response to that 
decision: 

4. Recalls the stated intention of the two Governments concerned to 
intensify, following the signature of the Treaty on the Reduction and 
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, further negotiations on other issues, 
in particular on preventing an arms race in space and achieving a 
comprehensive nuclear-test ban; 

5. Encourases and supports the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and 
the United States of America in their efforts to reduce their nuclear 
armaments and to give future negotiations the highest priority; 

6. Invites the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United 
States of America to keep other Members of the United Nations duly informed Of 
progress in their negotiations. 

u/ The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 12: 1987 (United 
Nations publication, Sales No. 88.1X.2), appendix VII. 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 55 

L 

Prohibition_of 

The General Assemble, 

Bearino in mind resolutions CM/Res.1153 (XLVIII) of 1988 J,& and 
/Res.1225 (L) of 1989 191 concerning the dumping of nuclear and industrial 
stes in Africa, adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organisation of 
rican Unity, 

Welcoming resolution GC (XXXIII)/RES/509 on the dumping of nuclear 
stes, adopted on 29 September 1989 by the General Conference of the 
ternational Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-third regular session, 

Welcomina also resolution GC (XXXIV)/RES/530 establishing a Code of 
actice on the International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Wastes, 
.opted on 21 September 1990 by the General Conference of the International 
.omic Energy Agency at its thirty-fourth regular session, 

Considerinq its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it 
iquested the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, inter alia, to 
Insider effective methods of control against the use of radiological methods 
j warfare, 

Recallinq resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991 of the Council of 
nisters of the Organization of African Unity on the Bamako Convention on the 
In on the Import into Africa and on the Control of Txansboundary Movement of 
lzardous Wastes within Africa, 

Aware of the potential hazards underlying any use of radioactive wastes 
lat would constitute radiological warfare and its implications for regional 
Id international security and in particular for the security of developing 
juntxies, 

Desirous of promoting the implementation of paragraph 76 of the Final 
tcument of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, &/ 

Aware also of the consideration of the question of dumping of radioactive 
istes in the Conference on Disarmament during its 1991 session, 

Recallinq its resolution 45/58 K of 4 December 1990, in which it 
?quested the Conference on Disarmament to include in its report to the 
?neral Assembly at its forty-sixth session the developments in the Ongoing 
lgotiations on this subject, 

L8/ See A/43/398, annex I. 

191 See A/44/603, annex I. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 56 

1. Takes note of the part of the report of the Conference on 
Disarmament 2J/ relating to a future convention on the prohibition of 
radiological weapons: 

2. Exoresses qrave concern regarding any use Of nUClear Wastes that 
would constitute radiological warfare and have grave implications for the 
national security of all States; 

3. Calls upon all States to take appropriate measures with a view to 
preventing any dumping of nuclear or radioactive wastes that would infringe 
upon the sovereignty of States: 

4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to take into account, in the 
ongoing negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of radiological 
weapons, radioactive wastes as part of the scope of such a convention; 

5. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify efforts 
towards an early conclusion of such a convention, and to include in its report 
to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session the progress recorded in 
the ongoing negotiations on this subject; 

6. Takes note of resolution CMlRes.1356 (LIV) of 1991 of the Council of 
Ministers of the Organization of African Unity on the Bamako Convention on the 
Ban of the Import into Africa and on the Control of Transboundary Movement of 
Hazardous Wastes within Africa: 

7. Expresses the hope that the effective implementation of the 
International Atomic Energy Agency Code of Practice on the International 
Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Wastes will enhance the protection of 
all States from the dumping of radioactive wastes on their territories; 

8. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue keeping 
the subject under active review, including the desirability of concluding a 
legally binding instrument in this field; 

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes". 

* * * 

47. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption 
of the following draft decisions: 

a/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-sixth Session, 
Supplement No. 27 (A/46/27), paras. 94-97. 

/ . . . 



A/46/673 
English 
Page 57 

Conventional disarmament on a reaional scale 

The General Assembly, on the recommendation of the First Committee, 
aving recalled its decision 45/418 of 4 December 1990, decides: (a) to 
slcpme the report of the Secretary-General on this question; J&/ (b) to 
nvite Member States which have not yet done so to convey to the 
ecretary-General their views on t&is matter; and (c) to include in the 
rovisional agenda of its forty-seventh session the item entitled 
Conventional disarmament on a regional scale"'. 

II 

Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons: 
1995 Conference and its Preparatory Committee 

The General Assembly, on the recommendation of the First Committee as 
equested by the parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
eapons, takes note of the intent of the parties to form a preparatory 
ommittee in 1993 for the conference called for in article X, paragraph 2, of 
he Treaty, and decides to include in the provisional agenda of its 
orty-seventh session the item entitled "Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
uclear Weapons: 1995 Conference and its Preparatory Committee". 

a/ A/46/333 and Corr.1 and Add.1. 


