







































UNITED
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/46/719
4 December 1991

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-sixth session
Agenda item 93

RIGHT OF PEOPLES TO SELF-DETERMINATION

-1 Ms. Rosemary SEMAFUMU (Uganda)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-sixth session the item entitled “Right of peoples to
self-determination” and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered this item jointly with item 92 at its 3rd to
12th, 20th, 35th and 40th meetings, from 7 to 11 and on 14, 15 and 23 October
and 8 and 13 November 1991. An account of the Committee’s discussions is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/46/SR.3-12,  20, 35 and 40).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documentation!

(a) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the preliminary report of
the Special Rappporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the question of
the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the
exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination (A/46/459))

(b) Note verbale dated 6 May 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
Albania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/46/166-E/1991/71)$

(c) Note verbale dated 21 May 1991 from the Permanent Mission of
Yugoslavia to the United Ndt .ons addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/46/184-E/1991/8l)t

91-47332 0709P  (E) / . l .



A/46/719
English
Page 2

(d) Letter dated 3 July 1991 from the Charge d’affairea  a.i. of t h e
Permanent Mission of Albania to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/46/292-S/22769))

(e) Letter dated 9 July 1991 from the Charge d’affaires  a.i. of t h e
Permanent Mission of Albania to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (~1461294)~

(f) Note verbale dated 15 July 1991 from the Permanent Mission of
Yugoslavia  to the United Rations addressed to the Secretary-General
(~146/304-~122796)~

(g) Letter dated 5 August 1991 from the Permanent Representative o f
Vanuatu to the United Rations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/344)$

(h) Letter dated 27 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/46/501/Rev.l)#

(i) Letter dated 21 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/46/587).

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 7 October 1991, the Director of the Implementation
of International Instrument8 and Procedure8 Branch of the Centre for Human
Rights made an introductory statement on the item (see A1C.31461SR.3).

5. At the 4th meeting, on 6 October, the Committee heard an introductory
statement by the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Right8 on the
question of the u8e of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and
impeding the exercise of the right of people8 to self-determination (see
A/C.3/46/SR.4).

6. At the 8th meeting, on 11 October, the Under-Secretary-General for Human
Right8 made a statement (see A1C.31461SR.8).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutions A/C.3/46/L.l0  and Rev.1

7. At the 20th meeting, on 23 October 1991, the representative of Ethiopia,
on behalf of the State8 Members of the United Nation8 that are member8 of the
Group of African States, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/46/L.10)
entitled “Importance of the universal realization of the right of people8 to
self-determination and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial
countries and people8 for the effective guarantee and observance of human
right8”,  which read as fol~owsr

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 3

“-fir- its faith in the importance of the implementation o f
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to ColoniaA Countries and
Peoples contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December lS60,

"&&fir- alsg the importance of the universal realization of the
right of peoples to self-determination, national sovereignty and
territorial integrity and of the speedy granting of independence to
colonial countries and peoples as imperatives for the full enjoyment o f
all human rights,

“Reaffirmina  fur- the obligation of all Member States to c o m p l y
with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the
resolutions of the United Nations regarding the exercise of the right to
self-determination by peoples under colonial and foreign domination,

"Recallinq its resolution 1514 (XV) and all relevant resolutions
concerning the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

"Considering the urgent need of Namibia for assistance in its
efforts to reconstruct and strengthen its fledgling economic and social
structures,

"WelcoJ&g the adoption at Harare  on 21 August 1989 of the
Declaration of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Organization of African Unity
on Southern Africa on the question of South Africa 11 and its subsequent
endorsement by the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, 21 as
well as the report of the Monitoring Group of the Ad Hoc Committee of the
Organization of African Unity on Southern Africa, 91 and the Declaration
on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, &I
adopted by the General Assembly on 14 December 1989,

IITakina nota of the Declaration AHGiDecl.4  (XXVII) on South Africa
adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the
Organiaation of African Unity at its twenty-seventh ordiaary session,
held at Abuja, Nigeria, from 3 to 5 June 1991,

11 A/44/697, annex.

21 See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

91 A/44/963, annex.

d/ Resolution S-1611, annex.

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 4

“&affirm~ that the system of apartheid imposed on the South
African people constitutes a violation of the fundamental rights of that
people, a crime against humanity and a constant threat to international
peace and security,

“m~lv concerned that in spite of the national peace accord@ signed
on 14 September 1991, acts of assassination of members and leaders of
national liberation movements in South Africa are still continuing,

“m its resolution 441244, adopted by consensus on
14 September 1990, in which, titer al& it called upon the South African
regime to abide fully by the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa,

“GJoting that, while some significant political measures in the right
direction have been undertaken by the apartheid regime, apartheid is
s t i l l  in  p lace ,

*@mx that poli t ical  tr ials  and the detention of
political activists continue unabated in South Africa and in total
disregard of the provisions of the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa,

“JVelcominq  the decisions by the national liberation movements to
work towards unity, as evidenced in the agreement to convene the
patriotic  front conference,

@Q99plv  concm about the current wave of violence in South Africa
resulting from the continued existence of apartheid policies, practices
and structures as well as from actions of those forces opposed to the
democratic transformation of the country,

“Gravelv  concerned about the apartheid regime’s continued use of the
death penalty against South African patriots , with contemptuous disregard
for appeals for clemency from the international community, including the
General Assembly,

fna with grave concerr\ that despite the efforts by the
Government towards a negotiated settlement of the conflict in Mozambique,
there continues to be a senseless war, which has claimed a high toll in
human lives and destruction of property,

II affirminq with profound indignation the acts of aggression and
destabilization perpetrated by the Pretoria regime against the People’s
Republic of Angola,

“Reaffirminq  the national unity and territorial integrity of the
Comoros,

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 5

‘@w the Geneva Declaration on Ealeetine  and the Progratlune of
Action for the Achievement of Palestinian Rights, adopted by the
International Conference on the Question of Palesltine, li/

“s that the continuation of the Israeli oppressive
measures and denial of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people
to self-determination, sovereignty, independence and return to Palestine
constitute a serious threat to international peace and security,

II rm in u United Nations resolutions related to the ques t ion
of Palestine and the rights of the Palestinian people,

II v co- al- at the deplorable consequences of
Israel’s acts of aggression against Lebanon and its practices in and its
continuing occupation of parts of southern Lebanon, as well as its
refusal to implement the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, in
particular resolution 425 (1978) of 19 March 1976,

“1. w mop  all States to implement fully and faithfully all the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations regarding the exercise of the
right to self-determination and independence by peoples under colonial
and foreign domination1

“2. m the legitimacy of the struggle in all its forms of
peoples for independence, territorial  integrity,  national  unity and
liberation from colonial domination, apartheid and foreign occupation by
all  avai lable means)

“3 . Beaffirms ale9 the inalienable right of the Palestinian people
and all peoples under foreign occupation and colonial domination to
self-determination, national independence, territorial integrity,
national unity and sovereignty without foreign interference1

‘a4. Q~lls \48~ those Governments that do not recoqniae the right to
self-determination and independence of all people still under colonial
domination, alien subjugation  and foreign occupation to do 801

“5. Cal.ls  uno_~ Israel to refrain from the constant del iberate
violations of the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, which
constitute an obstacle to the achievement of self-determination and
independence by the Palestinian people and the ongoing efforts towards
comprehensive peace in the regionr

--

w ort of the Intermional Conference on the Question of  Palestine,
Geneva. 29 Auaust-7 Sent9j_@er  1982  (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.83.1.2), chap. I.

/ l . .



A/46/719
Engl i ah
Page 6

“6. m all S ta tes , the specialiaed  agencies and organiaations of
the United Nations system, as well as other international organiaations,
to extend  their support to the Palestinian people through its sole and
legit imate representative, the Palestine Liberation Organization, in its
struggle to regain its right to self-determination and indepenc¶ence  in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations;

*, 7. mw& to all States,  the Unitetl Nations system an8
other international  organisatioas  to assist in the reconstruction and
economic c¶evelopment  of Namibia)

I,
8. m its rejection of the so-called “new constitution’* as

null and void, and reiterates that peace in South Africa can be
guaranteed only by the establishment of majority rule through the full
and free exercise of adult suffrage by all the people in a unit& ancl
undivided South Africa;

“9. st.roncrlv the apartheid regime to respond positively to
the provisions of the Declaration of the Ad Hoc Committee of the
Organiaation  of African Unity on Southern Africa on the question of South
Africa, A/ and the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa; %I

“10, Datermines that the South African racist regime must take
additional steps to implement tho profound and irreversible changes
called for in the Declaration on Apartheidt

“11. jVelco=  the signing of the national peace accord on
14 September 1991 by the African National Congress, Inkatha Freedom Party
and the South African regime as a significant contribution towards the
ending of political violence in South Africa)

“12. u for an immec¶iate  end to violence and calls upon the South
African regime to take urgent action through, titer aJ&, strict
adherence to th, national peace accord to end itt

“13. m COW the establishment and use of armecl terrorist
groups by South Africa with a view to pitting them against the national
liberation movements and destabilizing the legitimate Governments of
southern Africa;

“14. &&I dew the immediate application of the mandatory arms
embargo against South Africa, imposed under Security Council resolution
418 (1977) of 4 November 1977, by all countries and more particularly by
those countries that maintain military and nuclear cooperation with the
racist Pretoria regime and continue to supply it with related materiel)

“15. Deeulv  concernea  with the actions by certain countries whose
premature relaxation of existing measures against the South African
regime in flagrant violation of the United Nations conse~Asu8 declaration



A/46/719
English
Page 7

encourages the regime to persist in its oppression of the black majority
for their right to self-determinations

“16. s the international community, pursuant to Geaerai
Assembly resolution 451130, to continue to extend maximum asaiatance to
Lesotho to enable it to fulfil it8 international humanitarian obligation8
toward8 refugeeat

“17. w the Government of Angola for its political will,
diplomatic f lexibil i ty  and constructive spirit  in the search for a
negotiated solution to the problems of southern Africa)

“18. Demanas that the Pretoria regime continue to respect the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Angola and the principle o f
non-interference in the internal affairs of that State, and demand8 the
immediate paymsnt  of compeneation  to Angola for damage8 caused, in
accordance with the relevant decision8 and resolution8 of the Security
Count  i 1 t

“19. Demanas that the racist regime of South Africa pay full and
adequate compensation to Botswana for the loss of life and damage to
property resulting from the unprovoked and unwarranted military attacks
of 14 June 1985, 19 May 1966 and 20 June 1968 on the capital of Botswana;

“20. w the effort8 by the Government of Moaambique toward8 a
negotiated settlement of the confl ict  in that country, and calls for
immediate cessation of the massacres of defencelees  people and t h e
destruction of economic and social infrastructures perpetrated by
externally supported armed terroristst

“21. -8 note with auoreciation  of Security Council resolution
690 (1991) of 29 April 1991, approving the Secretary-General’s report on
a referendum on self-determination to be held in Western Sahara a n d
support8 the Secretary-General’s effort8 for the implementation of the
plan on the question of Western Sahara in cooperation with the
Organiaation of African Unity)

“22. Notes the contacts between the Government of the Comoro8  and
the Government of France in the search for a just solution to the problem
of the integration of the Comorian island of Mayotte into the Comoros,  in
accordance with the resolutions of the Organiaation  of African Unity a n d
the United Nations on the question)

“23. WY con- the continued violation of the human r i g h t s
of the people8 still under colonial domination and alien subjugationt

“24. Calla  for a substantial  increase in all forms of a s s i s t a n c e
given by all States, United Nations organs, the specialized agencies and
non-governmental organization8 to the victim8 of racism, racial
discrimination and apartheid through national liberation movements
recognized by the Organisation  of African Unityt

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page El

“25. Reaffirms that the practice of using mercenaries against
sovereign States and national liberation movements constitutes a criminal
act, and calls upon the Qovernments  of all countries to enact  l e g i s l a t i o n
declaring the recruitment, financing and training of mercenaries in their
territories and the transit of mercenaries through their territories t o
be punishable offences  and prohibiting their nationals from serving as
mercenaries, and to report on such legislation to the Secretary-General]

“26. Dsmanae the immediate and unconditional release of all persons
detained or imprisoned as a result of t:-keir struggle f o r
self-determination and independence, full respect for their  fundamental
individual rights and compliance with article 5 of the Universa l
Declaration of Human Rights, a/ under which no one shall be subjected to
torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment;

“27. mresses m for the material and other forms of
assistance that peoples under colonial rule continue to receive f r o m
Governments, organfaations  of the United Nations system and other
intergovernmental organisations, and calls for a substantial  increase in
that  aesistancet

“28. m all States, the specialiaed  agencies and other competent
organisations of the United Nations system to do their utmost to ensure
the full implementation of the Declaration on the Granting o f
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and to intensify their
efforts to support peoples under colonial, foreign and racist domination
in their just struggle for self-determination and independence1

“29. u to consider this  quest ion at  i ts  forty-seventh session
under the item entitled ‘Right of peoples to self-determination’.”

8. At the 35th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Gabon, on
behalf  of  the seme sponqors, introduced a revised draft resolution
(A/C.3/46/L.lO/Rev.l)  and orally revised it as follows:

(a) In operative paragraph 4, the word “people*’  was replaced by the word
“peoples”;

(b) In operative paragraph 15, the words “&9plv  concerned” were
replaced by the words “R~coconcerq”.

9. At the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement.

10. At the 40th meeting, on 13 November, the representative of Israel made a
statement in explanation of vote before the vote. Statements were also made
by the representatives of Egypt and Algeria.

P/ Resolution 217 A (III).

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 9

11. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution,
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 93 to 21, with 27 abstentions (see
pare. 21, draft resolution I). zhe voting was as follows: 21

Aaainstr

Abstainincr:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Beliae, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail,
Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Qabon, Ohan%
Grenada, Quatemala,  Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya ,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Moasmbique,  Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,  Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Veneauela.  Wet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Caechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Pansma,  Poland, Romania,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and United States of America.

Albania, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Jamaica,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, New Zealand,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
and Urugury.

12. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements in
explanation of vote were made by the representatives of Panama, the
Netherlands (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that a r e
members of the European Community), Uruguay, Brazil,  Canada, Veneauela,
Hungary, Poland (also on behalf of Caechoslovakia), Japan, Chile, the United
States of America, Paraguay, El Salvador, Australia, Honduras, Ukraine, New
Zealand, the Union of Sovi& Socialist Republics, Romania and Belarus. The
observer for Palestine made a statement.

z/ The representatives of Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Rwanda and Vanuatu
stated that had they been present they would have voted in favour of the draft
resolution.

/ .*.



A/46/719
English
Page 10

13. At the 20th meeting, on 23 October 1991, the representative of Pakistan,
o n  b e h a l f  of Botswena.  Br& Dar-e.  Col~w_Rice.

c  o f  I r a n .  J o r d a n .
M o r o c c o .  a Paw Pw a-, Qatar. w

be. Su, t h e  Q&n. -4,
the m and yiaw, introduced a draft  resolution
(A/C,3/46/L.12) entitled Wniversal  realiaation  of the right of p e o p l e s  t o
self -determination”. Subsequently, mne Verk joined in sponsoring the dra f t
resolution,

14, At its 40th meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted tha draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 21, draft resolution II).

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of India
made a statement.

C .  R&t resw A/C.3/46/L.13/Rev.l

16. At the 20th meeting, on 23 October 1991, the representative of Nigeria,
on  b e h a l f  of -la. CoLpmbia.  Cuba.  M&co. NW, Per&_ the &&t,~d

of -a, Viet RR& Rta&i,~  and -we, introduced a d r a f t
resolution (A/C.3/46/L.13) entitled TJ8e of mercenaries as a means to v:olate
human rights and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to
self -determination”, which read as follows8

*I_ all its resolutions on the use of mercenaries as a means
to violate human rights and to impede the exercise of the right of
peoples to self-determination, and the purposes and principles enshrined
in the Charter of the United Nations concerning the strict observance of
the principle8 of sovereign equality, political independence, territorial
in tegr i ty  of States  and self-determina,ion  of peoples,  as  wel: as strict
respect for the prinaiple  of the non-use or threat of the use of force in
international  relat ions, as developed in the Declaration on Principles of
International Law concerning Friendly Relationa and Cooperation among
States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, a/

‘em the legit imacy of the struggle of peoples and their
liberation movements for their independence, territorial integrity,
national unity and liberation from colonial domination, apartheid and
foreign interventicn and occupation , and that their legitimate struggle
can in no way be considered as or equated to mercenary activity,

81 Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

/ . . .



A/46/71*‘
English
Page 11

“m that the use of mercenaries is a threat to i n t e r n a t i o n a l
peace and security,

“DeaBlv_concerneB  about the menace that the activities of
mercenaries represent for all States, particularly African and o t h e r
developing Statee,

I’m at the continued international  criminal
activities carried out by mercenaries in collusion with t¶rug traff ickers,

“e that the activities of mercenaries  are contrary to the
fundamental principles of international law, such se non-interference in
the internal affairs of States, territorial integrity and independence,
and impede the process of the self-determination of peoples struggling
against colonialism, racism and apartheid and all forms of foreign
domination,

“m all of its relevant resolutions,  as  well  aa those of t h e
Security Council, the Economic  and Social Council and the Organiaation o f
African Unity, in which, tier allp, it condemned any State that
permitted or tolerated the recruitment, financing, training, assembly,
transit and use of mercenaries with the objective of overthrowing the
governments of States Members of the United Nations, especially those of
developing countries, or of f ighting against  national  l iberation
movements,

*‘DBBD1Y_ about the loss of life, the substantial  damage to
property and the short-term and long-term negative effects on the economy
of southern African countries resulting from mercenary aggression,

“m that it is necessary to develop international cooperation
among States for the prevention, prosecution and punishment of such
of fences,

We the adoption of the International Convention against the
Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries, 9/ and the
fulfilment of the provisions of paragraph 2 of Commission on Human Right8
resolution 1991/29 of 5 March  199.:  LQ/ as ref lected in the p r e l i m i n a r y
report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights, 111

w Reeolut?.on  44134,  annex.

w See Qfficial  Records of tb Eco&c and Social Council. 19U,
mt No. 8 (E/1991/22), chap. II, sect. A .

.?_I/ A/46/459, annex*

/ . . .



A/46/718
English
Page 12

“1. &&RR  with B the note by the Secretary-General l.21
transmitting the preliminary report  of the Special Rapporteur of t h e
Commission on Human Rights on the use of mercenaries as a means of
violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples
to  self-determinatioar

“2. m  the continued recruitment, financing, t ra in ing ,
assembly, transit and use of mercenaries,  as well as all other forms of
support to mercenaries, for the purpose of destabiliaing  and overthrowing
the Oovernmente of African States and of other developing States and
fighting against the national liberation movements of peoples  struggling
for the exerc ise of their r ight to self-determinations

“3 . Reaffim  that the use of mercenaries and their recru i tment ,
financing and training are offences  of grave concern to all States a n d
violate the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the
United NatiOnSJ

“4 . s_troncrlv  cow the use of groups of armed mercenaries by
South African racist movements to carry out acts of aggression and
intimidation against the black majority and to fight the dismantling of
apartheidt

“5. Dsnaunoes any State that persists in the recruitment, o r
permits or tolerates the recruitment, of mercenaries and provides
facilities to them for launching armer3  aggression against other States)

“6. w all State8 to take the neceseary steps and to exercise
the utmost vigilance against the menace posed by the activities o f
mercenaries and to ensure. by both administrative and legislative
measures, that the territory of those States and other territories under
their  control, as well as their nationals, are not used for the
recruitment, assembly, financing, training and transit of mercenaries,  or
for the planning of activities deeigned to destabiliae  or overthrow the
Government of any State and to fight the national liberation movementa
etruggling against racism, apartheid, colonial domination and foreign
intervention or occupations

“7 . $&Jls  uoa all States to extend humanitarian assistance to
victim8 of situations resulting from the use of mercenar ies ,  ae well as
from colonial or alien domination or foreign occupationt

“8. Reaffirms  that to uee channels of humanitarian and other
assistance to finance, train and arm mercenaries is inadmissibler

u/ A/46 /459 .

/ . . .



A / 4 6 / 7 1 9
English
Page 13

“9. S&~.GR  all States to take early action to s ign,  accede to or
ratify the International Convention against the Recruitment, Use,
Financing and Training of Mercenaries, in order to expedite the coming
into force of that Convention;

“10. &qu~~&  the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on the use of mercenar ies ,
especially in view of the additional elements highlighted in the
preliminary report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights.”

17. At the 35th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Nigeria, on
beha l f  of &QQ& ColqmBia. Cuba, -co, Niaeria, Peru the Unitaid
E~public and 2imbabwer subsequently joined‘by sierra
LeQne,  introduced a revised draft resolution (A1C.31461L.131Rev.l)  and orally
revisecl operative paragraph 10, which read;

@*lo, m the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-seventh session on the use of mercenaries,
especially in view of the additional elements highlighted in the report
of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights.“)

to read8

“10. Beauem the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights to report to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session on
the use of mercenaries, especially in view of the additional elements
highlighted in his report. I*.

18. At the 40th meeting, on 13 November, statements in explanation of vote
before the vote were made by the representatives of the Netherlands (on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the European
Community) and Viet Nam.

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution,
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 106 to 11, with 29 abstentions (see
para. 21, draft resolution III). The voting was as follows:

In: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belise, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, CGte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica ,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,

/ . . .



A/46/719
Bngl i ah
Page 14

Acrainstt

Abatainincl:

Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,  Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Pmmm,  Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Rwanda,
St. Kitts and Nevis,  Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islanda,  Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaailand,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanaania, Uruguay, Vanauatu,  Veneauela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and United States of America.

Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarua,  Bulgaria,
Canada, Caechoslovakia,  Denmark, El Salvador, Estonia,
Finland, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, New Zealand, Norway,
Paraguay, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics.

20. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, Btatements were made
by the representatives of Braail, Canada, Turkey, the United States of
America, Auetralia,  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and El Salvador.

/ . . .



A / 4 6 / 7 1 9
English
Page 15

XII. PECOMMENDATLONS

21. The Third Committee recommemls  to
the following draft resolutions:

OF THE THIRD COWfTrEE

the Qeneral  Assembly the adoption o f

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

o f  t h e  -1 muon of w r&&t uf peotam
k.9 self -determination axa of theq of S

.to colV.countFieasn8les  Ue effmtive  nuaxantee

v its faith in the importance of the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

v the importance of the universal realisation of the right
of peoples to self-determination, national sovereignty and territorial
integrity and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and
peoples as imperatives for the full enjoyment of all human rights,

Reaffirmina  fur- the obligation of all Memoer  States to comply with
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of the
United Nations regarding the exercise of the right tc self-determination by
peoples under colonial and foreign domination,

w its resolution 1514 (XV) and all relevant resolutions
concerning the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting o f
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

D the urgent need of Namibia for assistance in its efforts t o
reconstruct and strengthen its fledgling economic an8 social structures,

JVelcomhlBg  the adoption at Harare on 21 August 1969 of the Declaration o f
the Ad Hoc Committee of the Organiaation  of African Unity on Southern Africa
on the question of South Africa u/ and its subsequent endorsement by the
Ninth Conference of Reads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, ;bp/ as well as the report of t h e
Monitoring Group of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Organisation of African Unity
on Soutbern Africa, u/ and the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive

n/ A/44/697, annex,

fi/ See A/44/551-S/20870, annex.

u/ A / 4 4 / 9 6 3 ,  annex.



A/46/719
English
Page 16

Consequences in Southern Africa, J&/ adopted by the tleneral Assembly on
14 December 1989,

v of the Abuja Declaration on South Africa, AHWDecl.4  (XXVII),
adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and C3overnment  of the Organization
of African Unity at its twenty-seventh ordinary session, held at Abuja,
Nigeria, from 3 to 5 June 1991, u/

ReaPfirmia_cr  that the system of apartheid imposed on the South African
people constitutes a violation of the fundamental rights of that people, a
crime against humanity and a threat to regional peace and security,

-1~ con- that in spite of the national peace accords signed on
14 September 1991, acts of assassination of members and leaders of national
liberation movements in South Africa are still continuing,

Recalling its resolution 441244,  adopted by consensus on
14 September 1990, in which, infgr, it called upon the South African
regime to abide fully by the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa,

&!&g that, while some significant legal and political measures in the
right direction have been undertaken by the apartheid regime, apartheld  is
st i l l  in  p l a c e ,

No_tinq wim that political trials and the detention of opponents
of apartheid continue in South Africa and in total disregard of the provisions
of the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern
Africa,

Welcom&ng
towards unity,
conference,

the decisions by the national liberation movements to work
as evidenced in the agreement to convene the patriotic  front

peeolv D about the current wave of violence in South Afr ica
resulting from the continued existence of apartheid policies, practices and
structures as well as from actions of those forces opposed to the democratic
transformation of the country,

S;ravelv  concernecj  that a number of South African patriots
row,

remain on death

@ting withgbave co- that despite the efforts by the Government
towards a negotiated settlement of the conflict in Mozambique, there continues

u/ Resolution S-16/1, a n n e x .

n/ A /46 /390 ,  a n n e x  I I .

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 17

to be a senseless w a r , which has claimed a high toll in human lives and
destruction of property,

D the national unity and territorial integrity of the Comofos,

u the Geneva Declaration on Palestine and the Progranune of Action
for the Achievement of Palestinian Rights, adopted by the International
Conference on the Question of Palestine, u/

m that the continuation of the Israeli oppressive measures a n d
denial of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to
self-determination, sovereignty, independence and return to Palestine
constitute a serious threat to international peace and security,

w in M United Nations resolutions related to the question o f
Palestine and the rights of the Palestinian people,

Iv cw at the deplorable consequences of Israel’s
acts of aggression against Lebanon and Pte practices in and its continuing
occupation of parts of southern Lebanon, as well a8 its refusal  to implement
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, in particular resolution
425 (1975) of 19 March 1978,

1. Calla all States to implement fully and faithfully all the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations regarding the exercise of the r i g h t
to self-determination and independence by peoples under colonial and foreign
dominations

2. Reaf the legitimacy of the struggle in all its forms of peoples
for independence, territorial integrity, national unity and liberation f r o m
colonial domination, apartheid and foreign occupation by all available meansr

3. Reaff irms the inal ienable right  of  the Palest inian people and
all peoples under foreign occupation and colonial domination to
self-determination, national independence, territorial integrity, national
unity and sovereignty without foreign interference;

4. us uaoq those Governments that do not recognize the right to
self-determination and independence of all peoples still under colonial
domination, alien subjugation and foreign occupation to do so;

5. Mls up~R Israel to refrain f rom the constant del iberate violat ions
of the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, which constitute an

;bB/  Becort of the Iz&grnationaJ  Conference on the Question of Palestina,
Geneva, 29 &gRst-7 Sepe3 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.83.1.211, chap. I.

/ .*.



A/46/119
English
Page 18

obstacle to the achievement of self-determination and independence by the
Palestinian people and the ongoing efforta  towards comprehensive peace in the
region;

6, u all  States, the specialiaed agencies and organisations  of t h e
United Nations system, as well as other international organiaations, to extend
their support to the Palestinian people through its sole and legit imate
representative, the Palestine Liberation Organiaation, in its struggle to
regain its right to self-determination and independence in accordance with the
Charter of the United Nationst

7. e au- to all States, the United Nations system and other
international organiaations to assist in the reconstruction and economic
development of Namibiar

8, Reaffirms its rejection of the so-called “tri-camera1  constitution*’
of 1983 as null and void, and reiterates that peace in South Africa can be
guaranteed only by the establishment of majority rule through the full and
free exercise of adult suffrage by all the people in a united and undivided
South Af riaar

9. v the apartheid regime to respond positively to the
provisions of the Declaration of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Organiaation o f
African Unity on Southern Africa on the question of South Africa, n/ and t h e
Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern
Africa) u/

10. Determines that the South African racist regime must take additional
steps to implement fully the profound and irreversible changes called for in
the Declaration on Apartheid]

11. PelcQmaa  the signing of the national peace accord on
14 September 1991 by the African National Congress of South Africa, the
Inkatha Freedom Party and the South African regime as a significant
contribution towards the ending of political violence in South Africa)

12. u for an immediate end to violence and calls upon the South
African regime to take urgent action to end it through, igter u, strict
adherence to the national peace accord1

13. uronq&y COW the establishment and use of armed terrorist
groups by South Africa with a view to pitting them against the national
liberation movements and destsbiliaing the legitimate Governments of southern
Af rice)

14. &&.D dm the immediate application of the mandatory arms
embargo against South Africa, imposed under Security Council resolution
418 (1977) of 4 November 1977, by all countries and more particularly by those
countries that maintain military and nuclear cooperation with the racist
Pretoria regime and continue to supply it with related mtdriel,t

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 19

15. Expresses  ita deco _COIICBIFIL about the actions by certain countr ie s
whose premature relaxation of existing measures against the South Afr ican
regime in flagrant violation of the United Nations consensus declaration
encourages the regime to persist in its oppression of the black majority with
regard to their right to se l f -de terminat ion1

16. WY  urgap the international community, pursuant to General
Assembly resolution 45/130 of 14 Decmber  1990, to continue to extend maximum
assistance to Lesotho  to enable it to fulfil its international humanitarian
obligations towards refugees]

17. a the Government of Angola for its political will, diplomatic
flexibility and constructive spirit in the search for a negotiated solution to
the problems of southern Africar

18. Demsnt$a  that the Pretoria regime continue to respect the sovere ignty
and territorial integrity of Angola and the principle of non-interference in
the internal affairs of that State, and demands the immediate payment o f
compensation to Angola for damages caused, in accordance with the relevant
decisions and resolutions of the Security Councils

19. mm that the racist regime of South Africa pay full and adequate
compensation to Botswana for the loss of life and damage to property resulting
from the unprovoked and unwarranted military attacks of 14 June 1985,
19 May 1986 and 20 June 1988 on the capital of Iotswanal

20. m the efforts by the Government of Mozambique towards a
negotiated settlement of the conflict in that country, and calls for immediate
cebsaticn of the massacres of defenceless people and the destruction o f
economic and social infrastructures perpetrated by externally supported armed
terroristsl

21. me8 note wm of Secur i ty  Counc i l  re so lu t ion
690 (1991) of 29 3pril 1991, approving the Secretary-General’s report on the
holding of a referendum for the self-determination of Western Sahara u/ and
fully supports the Secretary-General in his efforts to implement the plan f o r
the settlement of the question of Western Sahara in cooperation with the
Qrganiaation  of African Unityt

22. Dotes the contacts between the Government of the Comoros and the
Government of France in the search for a just solution to the problem of the
integration of the Comorian island of Mayotte into the Comoros, in accordance
with the resolutions of the Organisation  of African Unity and the United
Nations on the questionr

23. stron& condemns  the cont.‘.nued  violation of the human rights of the
peoples still under colonial domination and alien subjugations

MI S/22464 and Corr.1.

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 20

24. Cslla for LI substant ia l  inCreaSe  ia all forms of a s s i s t a n c e  g i v e n  b y
all States, United Natiom organor the spe3ialised agencies and
non-governmenta l  organisations  to the victim8  of racism, racial d i s c r i m i n a t i o n
and &.partheid  through nationc  Y. liberation movements recogniaed by the
Organiaation  of African Unity)

25. Reaffirma that the practice of using mercenaries against  sovereign
E+ates  and national liberation movements  oonetitutes  a criminal act, and calls
upon the Qovernments  of all countries to enact legislation declaring t h e
recruitment, financing and training of mercenaries in their territories and
the transit of mercenaries through their territories to be punishable offences
and prohibiting their nationals from serving as mercenaries, and to report on
such legislation to the Secretary-Qeneralt

26. D_emsnds the immediate and unconditional release of all persons
detained or imprisoned as a result of their struggle for se l f -de terminat ion
and inaependence, full respect for their fundamental individual rights and
compliance with article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a/
under which no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman o r
degrading treatment]

2 7 .  ms its  qparew for the material and other forms o f
assistance that peoples under colonial rule continue to receive f r o m
Governments,  organiaations of the United Nations system aM other
intergovernmental organiaations , and calls for a subcrtantial  increase in that
assistancet

28. w all  States, the specialized agencies and other competent
organizations of the United Nations system to do their utmost to ensure t h e
full implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples and to intensify their efforts to support
peoples under colonial, fore ign &nd racist domination in their just struggle
for self-determination  and independencer

29. pw to consider this question at i ts  forty-seventh session under
the iten: ent.ItleA “Right of peoples to self-determination”.

2p/ Resolution 217 A (XII) ,

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 21

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Peaffirmincr the importance, for the effective guarantee an8 observance of
human rights , of the universal realization of the right of peoples tc.
self-determination enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and embodiecl
in the International Covenants on Human Rights, a/ as well as in the
Declaretion on the Wanting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

&&w&@ the progresuive  exercise of the right to self-determination by
peaales under colonial, foreign or alien occupation and their emergence into
sovereign statehood and indepedence,

Baeplv co- at the continuation of acts or threats of foreign
military intervention an8 occupation that are threatening to suppress, or have
alreac¶y  suppressed, the right to self-determination of an increasing number o f
sovereign peoples ant3 nations,

Exr>ressiuave  co- that,, as a co;asequence  of tha pers i s tence  o f
such actions, millions of people htrve been and are being uprooted from their
homes as rafugees an8 displaced persons, an8 emphasiaing  the urgent need for
concertet3  international  acl.ion to alleviate their condition,

m the relevant resolutions regarding the violation of the right
of peoples  to self-c¶etermination  and other human rights as a result of foreign
mil i tary intervention, aggression and occupation, adopted by the Commission on
H u m a n  Rights at its thirty-sixth, k;L/ thirty-seventh, u/ thirty-eighth, 2.W

J,J,/  See resolution 2200 A (%X1), annex.

a./ See gfficial Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1980
SuDDlernent  No. 2 and corrigendum (E/1980/13 and Corr.l), chap. XXVI, seit. A.

23; I b i d . ,  1981, Suonlement No, ei and corrigendum (E/1981/25 and
Corr.l),  chap, XXVIII, sect. A.

241 Ibic¶., 1982, ,Sunr,lement No, 2 and corrigendum (F+‘1982/12 ant!
Corr. l), Chap.  XXVI, Sect, Aa

/ I..



A / 4 6 / 7 1 9
English
Page 22

thirty-ninth, a/ f o r t i e t h ,  Ml forty-firet,  2l/ forty-mmr&  2W
forty-third, 291 forty-fourth, U/ forty-fifth, &V forty-sixth &i/ and
forty-seventh SeSS~.OllSr u/

m its rstolutions  3505 B of 14 November 1980, 36/10  of
28 October 1981, 37142  of 3 December 1982, 38116  of 22 November 1983, 39/18  of
23 November 1984, 40124  of 29 November 1985, 411100 of 4 December 1986, 42/94
of 7 Demnber  1967, 431105 of 8 December 1988, 44/80  of 8 December 1989 sad
45/131 of 14 December 1990,

v of the report of the Secretary-General,

1, m that the universal realiaation  of the right of all
Q~OQ~~M,  including those under colonial, foreign and alien domination, to
self-determination is a fundamental condition for the effective guarantee a n d
observance of human rights and for the preservation and promotion of such
rights1

2. es its firmnof3iU  to acts of f o r e i g n
intervention, aggreseion  and occupation, since these have
sqpression  of the right of peoples to self-determination
rights in certain parts of the world)

military
resulted in t h e
and other human

3, eal, UQ~ those States responsible to cease immediately their
military intervention and occupation of foreign countries and territories and

a/ Ib id . ,  1983._6u-t No.  2
Corr. l), ChaQ. XXVII, seat. A.

and corrigendum (E/1983/13 and

fi/ Ibid,, 1984, S-rat N o ,  4
Corr.l), Chap. I I ,  Sect,  A.

and corrigendum (E/1984/14 and

2;1/ Ib id . ,  19-t No.  2

21 I b i d . ,  m. 2

2p/ I b i d . ,  2987, SuoplLgmgnt  N o .  5
a n d  2), chap. II, sect. A.

(E/1985/22),  chap. II,  sect.  A .

(E/1986/22),  Chap. II, s e c t .  A .

and corrigenda (E/1987/18 and Corr.1

u/ I b i d . ,  1900. Sumo. 2
C o r r .  1 ) ,  Chap. 111 Sect. A. ,

a/ I b i d . ,  1989. Sun? N o .  2

u/ Ib id . ,  DQO. Swlement  N o .  2
Corr. l), chap. II, sect, A .

and corrigendum (E/1988/12 and

(E/1989/20),  Chap.  II ,  sec t .  A .

and corrigendum (E/1990/22 and

u/ I b i d . , -_GuPnlement. (E/1991/22),  chap .  II ,  s e c t .  A .

/ l . .



A/46/319
English
Page 23

all acts of repres s ion , discrimination, exploitation and maltreatment,
particularly the brutal and inhuman methods reportedly employec¶  for the
execution of these acts against the peoples ooncernet¶~

4. Del>lo the plight of the millions of refugees and displaced
persons who have been uprooted as a result of the aforementioned acts, ant!i
reaffirms their right to return to their homes voluntarily in safety a n d
honour )

5. Recruests the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give special
attention to the violetion of human rights, especially the right t o
self-determination, resulting from foreign military intervention, aggression
3r occupationt

6. Recruesfa  the Secretary-General to report on this issue to the
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session under the item entitled “Right
of peoples to self-&itermination88.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Useofs  as a mim.6 to vUAkUuum rhhbi
t o  fmBede  the- of the r ight  o f  u,eoQJm t,~

Recsllina its resolutions 44134  end the annex thereto of 4 December 1989
and 45/132 of 14 December 1990 on the use of mercenaries as a means to violate
human rights and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to
self-determination.

Reaffirmina  the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations concclniug  the strict observance of the principles of s o v e r e i g n
equality, political ACependence, territorial integrity of States a n d
self-cIeterminatio3 of peoples,

u strict respect for the principle of the non-use  or threat of t h e
use of force in international relations, as developed in the Declaration on
Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation
among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, M/

Uaf the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples and their
liberation movements for their independence, terr i tor ia l  in tegr i ty ,  na t iona l
unity and liberation from colonial domination, apartheid and foreign
intervention and occupation, and that kheir legitimate struggle can in no way
be considered as or equated to mercenary activity,

u/ Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

/ . . .



A/46/719
English
Page 24

m that the use of meraeaaries  is a threat to international  peace
and security,

&@v copcBunaa  about the menace that the activities of meroenariea
represent for all States, particularly Afriaan and other developing States,

Profoundlv at the aontinued  in ternat iona l  oriminal activit ies o f
mercenaries in oollueion with drug traffiokere,

B that the aotivities of mercenaries  are oontrary  to t h e
fundamental prinoiploa  of international law, auah CI; non-interference in the
internal affairs of States, territorial  integrity and independenae,  and impede
the process of the self-determination of peoples struggling against
aolonialism,  racism and apartheid and all forms of foreign domination,

m all of its relevant resolutions,  as  well  as  those of  the
Security Counoil, the Economic and Soaial Counoil and the Organiaation o f
African Unity, in which, M, it condemned any State that permitted o r
tolerated the recruitment, financing, training, assembly, transit and use of
mercenaries with the objective of overthrowing the Qovernments  of States
Members of the United Nations, eepeaially those of developing countries, or o f
fighting against national liberation movements,

gaaPlv concerned  about the loss of life, the substantial  damage to
property and the short-term and long-term negative effects on the economy of
southern African countries resulting from mercenary aggression,

Convincea that it ie necessary to develop international cooperation among
Statea for the prevention, proseaution and punishment of euch offenses,

Yelw the adoption of the International Convention against t h e
Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Meraenariee,  u/ and the
fulfilment of the provisions of paragraph 2 of resolution 1991129 o f
5 March 1991 of the Commission on Human Rights, ;L6/ aa refleated in the report
of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights, n/

1, s note with  of the report of the Special Rapporteur
of the Commission on Human Rights on the use of mercenaries as a means to
violate human rights and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to
self-determination)

x/ Resolution 44134, annex.

261 See Officiu  R e c o r d s  of a Council. l,99&,
walement No. 2 (E/1991/22), chap. II, sect. A .

n/ A / 4 6 / 4 5 9 ,  a n n e x .

/ ..*



A/46/719
English
Page 25

2, ConCIemna  the aontinued  rearuitment, f inancing,  training,  assembly,
transit and use of mercenaries, a8 well as all other fotima of support to
mercenaries, for the purpose of deetabiliaing and overthrowing the Governments
of African Statee and of other developing States and fighting againat  the
national liberation movements of peoples etruggling for the exercise of their
r ight  to self-determinatioat

3. Reaffirma  that the use of mercenaries and their recruitment,
financing and training are offencea of grave concern to all States and violate
the purposes and prinaiplee enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations)

4, with serious ca the use by the racist South African
regime of groups of armed mercenaries against national liberation movements
and for the destabilization of the Governments of southern African States1

5. Dencusces  any State that persists in the recruitment, or permits  o r
tolerates the recruitment, of mercenaries  and provides facilities to them for
launching armed aggression against other Statelsr

6. w all States to take the necessary steps and to exercise t h e
utmost vigilance against the menace posed by the activities of mercenaries a n d
to ensure, by both administrative and legislative measurear that the territory
of those States and other territories under their control, aa well as t h e i r
nationals , are not used for the recruitment, assembly, financing, training and
transit of mercenaries, or for the planning of activities designed to
destabiliaa  or overthrow the Government of any State and to fight the national
liberation movements struggling against racism, apartheid, colonial domination
and foreign intervention or ocaupationl

7. w all States to extend humanitarian assistance to victims
of situations resulting from the use of mercenaries,  a8 well as from co lon ia l
or alien domination or foreign occupation;

8, m that to use channels of humanitarian and other assistance
to finance, train and arm mercenaries is inadmissibler

9. us uoop all State6  which have not yet done so to consider taking
early action to accede to or to ratify the International Convention against
the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries)

10. m the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights to
report to the Qeneral  Assembly at its forty-seventh session on the use o f
mercenaries, especially in view of the additional elements highlighted in his
report.


