
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/46/625
8 November 1991

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-sixth session
Agenda item 99

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 & OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

ort of the Fourth Committee

-8 Mr. James KEMBER (New Zealand)

1, At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-sixth session the item entitled "Information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 Q of the Charter
of the United Nations". At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate
the item to the Fourth Committee.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 19, 99, 101 and 12, and 103, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 99 at its 7th to 14th meetings,
between 15 and 29 October (see A/C.4/46/SR.7-14). The general debate on the
items referred to above, including the present item, took place at the 8th to
14th meetings, between 18 and 29 October.

4. At the 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Rapporteur of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
made a statement in which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the
Special Committee during 1991 and drew attention to chapter VII of the report
of that Committee relatifig to item 99 (A/46/23 (Part IV)) 11 containing,

11 To be incorporated in Official Recor& of the General Assembly,
Forty-sixth Session, Suwwlement No. 23 (A/46/23).

91-37937 0627P  (E) / . . .



A/46/625
English
Page 2

jnter alb, the related draft resolution submitted by the Committee for the
consideration of the Fourth Committee,

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the
Secretary-General relating to the item (A/46/516).

6 . At its 14th meeting, on 29 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the
draft resolution contained in paragraph 9 of chapter VII of the report of the
Special Committee (A/46/23 (Part IV)) by a recorded vote of i40 to none, with
3 abstentions (see para. 7). 21 The voting was as follows: 91

Infava_2lrr Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, ComorOsr
Congo, Gate  B’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Auainstr None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

21 The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland made a statement in explanation of vote.

a/ Subsequently, the representative of Italy announced that, owing to a
malfunction of the voting machine, his delegation’s affirmative vote had not
been recorded.

/ . . .



A/46/625
English
Page 3

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

7 . The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

InfOrKIatiOn  from NQ&lf-Governisg  Territories tranm
under Article 73 8 of the Charter of the United Nation8

ne General Assembly,

Bavina examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 R of the
Charter of the United Nations 41 and the action taken by the Committee in
respect of that information,

. also exam&h&j  the report of the Secretary-General on this item, S/

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Specials Committee to study the information transmitted to the
Secretary-General in accorda:rce with Article 73 Q of the Charter and to take
such information fully into account in examining the situation with regard to
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Recalling also its resolution 45116  of 20 November 1990, in which it
requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Stressing the importance of timely transmission by the administering
Powers of adequate information under Article 73 Q of the Charter, in
particular in relation to the preparation by the Secretariat of the working
papers on the Territories concerned,

10 Awwroves  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 Q of the
Charter of the United Nations;

41 A/46/23 (Part IV), chap. VII.

51 A/46/516.

/ . . .



A/46/625
English
Page 4

2. Raaf that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure Of
self-government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 Q of the Charter
with respecL to that Territoryr

3 . &gu~&U  the administering Powers concerned to transmit or Continue  to
transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 Q of the
Charter , as well as the fullest possible information on political and
constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum period
of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in those
Territories1

4 . Reuuests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the
preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concerned;

5. Requests  the Special Committee to continua to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with
established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly at its forty-seventh
session.


