







































General Assembly Distr. 
LIMITED 

A/46/L. 24 
20 November 1991 

OBIGIN#.Lr ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 32 

ZONE OF PEACE AND COOPERATION OF THE SOUTH ATLWIC 

n its resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986, in which it Solemnly 
declared the Atlantic Ocean, in the region situated betveen Africa and South 
America, the "Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic", 

B its subsequent resolutiona on the matter, including 
resolution 45/36 of 27 Nov8mber 1990, in vhich it reaffirme& tbQ determftlRt.ion 
of the States of the zone to accelerate their cooperation in politkal, 
8conomic, scfsntific. technical, cultural and Other spheres, 

Beaefitmina that the questions of peace an& security an& those Of 
developm8nt are interrelated and inseparable, and considering that cooperation 
among all States, in particular those of the r8giOnr for peace and development 
is essential to promote tbe objectivea of the zone of peace and cooperation of 
th8 South Atlantic, 

&~LR of the importance that the States of the zone attach to the 
preservation of the region's environment and recognizing the threat that 
pollution from any source poseo to the marine and coastal enVirOMIent, its 
ecological balance and its resources, 

&&$g th8 global concern expressed on the use of fishing method8 and 
practices that can have an adverse impact on the conservation and management 
Of living resource8 of the marine environment, 

lotina with ostisfoction the various initiatives of the States of the 
zone to contribute to the achievement of the objective$ of the 2onQ1 

91-39470 38662 (E) / . . . 



A/M/L.24 
EngliSh 

Paqe 2 

1. ws not9 of the report submitted by the Secretary-General in 
accordance -.lith resolution 45136; 11 

2. Calls_uPon all States to cooperate in the promotion of the 
objectives established in the declaration of the zone of peace and cooperation 
of the South Atlantic and to refrain from any action inconsistent with those 
objectives, as well as with the Charter of the United Nations and relevant 
resolutions of the Organisation, particularly actiona which may create or 
aggravate situations of tension and potential conflict in the region: 

3. Welcomes the resolution adopted at the twelfth regular session of 
the General Conference of the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in 
Latin America (OPANAL) on the cooperation between the Latin American 
nuclear-free zone and the zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic, 
which cal.led upon the States parties and signatories to the Treaty of 
Tlatelolco and its additional protocols to submit suggestions on formulas for 
the creation of cooperative mechanisms between the two zones; 21 

4. a the importance of the South Atlantic to global maritime and 
commercial transactions and its determination to preserve the region for all 
activities protected by relevant international law, including the freedom of 
navigation in the hiqh seas8 

5. m the actions of the States of the zone towards fulfilling 
the objectives of the Final document of the second meeting of States of the 
zone of peace and cooperation, held at Abuja, Nigeria, from 25 to 
29 June 19902 21 

6. m not& of the proposal contained in the joint communique issued 
by the Presidents of Namibia and Brazil in Windhoek, on 13 September 1991, for 
the holding in 1992, after due consultations among all the countries of the 
zone, of a meeting of Ministers for Trade and Industry of the countries of the 
zone, to take place at Windhoek, and of a meeting of high officials in the 
area of youth and sports, to take place in Brasilia, with a view to enhancing 
cooperation and development among the States of the zone; 

7. ms its aonrecfatioq for the success so far achieved by 
Namibia in the consolidation of its independence, and calls upon the 
international community to render necessary assistance to Namibia in the areas 
of its defined needs in order to strengthen further its independence and 
sovereignty1 

11 A/46/410. 

21 A/46/297, annex. 

31 A/45/474, annex. 

/ . . . 



A1461L.24 
English 
Page 3 

8. w note with of the hope expressed by the countries of 
the zone to welcome in the near future a non-racial democratic South Africa 
into the community of South Atlantic States; 

Q. &&QDQQ the peace agreements in Angola and Liberia, and calls upon 
the international community to encourage and support these developments; 

10. m all States to abstain from transferring into and disposing 
within the region hazardous, toxic and nuclear wastes and notes the 
determination of the States of the zone to establish a mechanism aimed at 
monitoring, collating and disseminating information and data on the movement 
of hazardous, toxic and nuclear wastes within the region; 

11. m the imperative need to preserve the environment and the 
marine resources of the region, and urges all States to take necessary 
measures in order to protect the environment and preserve the marine resources; 

12. u all States not to engage in the use of fishing methods and 
practices that can have an adverse impact on the conservation and management 
of marine living resources in the zone: 

13. St;)ressu the historical importance of the forthcoming United Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development, scheduled to be held in 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992, as an opportunity to advance further the 
objectives of the zone by addressing the issue of environment and development 
in all its ramifications; 

14. &ggmaes its app 
. 

reciw for the ansistance that the Office of 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea and the United Nations Development 
Programme have extended towards the convening by the States of the zone of 
seminars of a group of experts at Drazaaville, from 12 to 15 June 1990 and at 
Montevideo from 3 to 6 April 1991 which were devoted to a review of the 
development and implementation of the legal regime established by the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 4/ and requests the Office for Ocean 
Affairs an& the Law of the Sea and the United Nations Development Programme to 
continue to provide assistance for the implementation of follow-up measures 
agreed upon in Montevideo; 

15. Egpresses aylpnort for the determination of the States of the zone 
that technical cooperation among developing countries be recognized as 
activities that can be financed by the United Nations Development Programme, 
and requests the United Nations as well as other relevant international bodies 
to assist the States of the zone in the reaiization of their needs in this 
regard, at their request; 

41 Official Records f he Thir Uni fi he Law 
Qf the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.64.V.3), 
document A/CONF,62/122. 

/ . . . 



A/46/C. 24 
English 
Paqe 4 

16. Be the aspirations of the States of the zone to make it an 
active imtrument for fostering human rights, fundamental t’reodoma, racial 
equality, juutice and liberty as integral elements of peace, development and 
cooperation at national and regional levels1 

17. v  the Secretary-General ta keep the implementation of 
resolution 41/1X under review and to rubmit a report to the General Assembly 
at ita forty-seventh rert3ioa, taking into account, fnter, the view8 
expressed by Member States; 

18. w to include in the provisional ageada of its forty-seventh 
session the item entitled “Zone of peace and cooperation of the South 
Atlantic”. 

--w-e 


