







































UNITED 
NATIONS A 

- 

General Assembly Distr. 
LIMITED 

A/46/L.42 
6 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 

Agenda item 37 

POLICIES OF AF'ARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA 

iat draft re8om 

n the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences 
in Southern Africa, f/ its resolutions 45/176 B and C of 19 December 1990, %8 
well as the reaalutions of the Security Council on the arms embargo and 
military collaboration with South Africa, 

Takfncr of thr.report of the Special Committee against Apartheid, 21 
and the report of the Security Council Committee established by resolution 
421 (1977) of 9 December 1977 concerning the question of South Africa on its 
activities during the period 1980-1989, 91 

w with aDPreciation the resolve and effectiveness of the Security 
Council in its handling of questions relating to the preservation of 
international peace and security, 

Notfna that the monitoring and enforcement mechanism of the mandatory 
sanctions imposed by the Security Council on South Africa in its resolution 
418 (1977) would benefit from further strengthening, 

f/ Resolution S-1611. 

21 A/46/22. 

ii./ S/21015. 

91-47933 4019z (E) / . . . 



A/46/L.42 

English 
Page 2 

v that the full implementation of the mandatory arms embargo 
agai.nat South Africa is an essential element of international action towards 
the eradic%tiln of apartheid, 

mtm that sanctions and other restrictive measures have had % 
significant impact on recent developments in South Africa and that the phased 
application of appropriate pressure remains an effective and necessary 
instrument in the process towards the peaceful end to apartheid, 

-note of the accession by South Africa to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons on 10 July 1991 and subsequent conclusion 
and ratification of a related safeguards agreement, 

at the continued violations of the mandatory 
arms embargo, particularly by those countries which surreptitiously trade in 
arms with South Africa, 

Exoressitla that South Africa's external military 
relations, especially in the area of military technology and, in particular, 
in the production and testing of missiles, continue unabated, as mentioned in 
paragraphs 100 to 102 of the report of the Special Committee, 

Grayslv at the practice carried out by certain oil-producing 
States whereby oil is exchanged for South African arma, 

1. m the action8 of those States which, directly or indirectly, 
continue to violate the mandatory arms embargo and collaborate with South 
Africa in the military, nuclear, intelligence and technology fields, and calls 
upon those States to terminate forthwith any illegel acts and honour their 
obligations under Security Council resolution 418 (1977)t 

2. m all States to adopt strict legislation relating to the 
implementation of the arms embargo and prohibit the supply to South Africa of 
nuclear and military products, as well a8 computers and communications 
equipment, technological akilla and servicea, including military intelligence, 
destined for use by the military, police and security agencies of that 
country, until free and fair elections have been held and a democratic 
government has been establishedt 

3. w for the early and full disclosure by South Africa of it% 
nuclear installations and materials in conformity with its treaty obligations 
as an essential element to the peace %nd security of the southern African 
region: 

4. yraes the Security Council to consider immediate steps to ensure the 
full implementation and the effective mOnitOring of the arms embargo imposed 
by the Council in its resolutions 418 (1977) and 558 (1984), and to implement 
the recommendations of the Committee established under resolution 421 (1977) 
concerning appropriate measure3 in response to violation% of the mandatory 
arms embargo, and provide information on a regular basis to the 
Secretary-General for general distribution to Member States; 

/ . . . 



A/46/L.42 
English 
Page 3 

5. Calls all States to maintain existing financial measures, and. 
in particular, urges Governments snd private financial institutions, a8 wall 
aa the Iutornational Monetary Fund and the World B-k, not to extend neu loans 
and credits to South Africa, whether to the public or private sector, uatfl 
agreement has been reached on a non-racial democratic constitution or until 
specific rrmconaradations are made on this matter by the transitional 
authorities to bo established by the Conference for a Democratic South Africa; 

6. m ths Special Committee againat Apartheid to keep the issue 
of military and auclear collaboration uith South Africa under constant review 
and to report thereon to the General Assembly and the Security Council as 
appropriate. 


