







































UIUlTED 
NATIONS A 

General Assembly Distr. 
LIMITED 

A/46/L.35 

5 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 33 

QUESTION OF PALESTINE 

. 
Guvaaa. 

H&no cons- the report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, f/ 

Takina not&, in particular, of the information contained in paragraphs 75 
to 86 of that report, 

Recellina its resolutions 45/67 C and 45/68 of 6 December 1990, 

Convfnced that the world-wide dQssemination of accurate and comprehensive 
fnformstion and the role of non-governmental organfzations and institutions 
remain of vital Importance in heightening awareness of and support for the 
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to the 
establishment of an independent sovereign Palestinian State, 

1. w note with aporeciation of the action taken by the Department 
of Public Information of the Secretariat in compliance with General Assembly 
resolution 45167 CI 

11 Qfficial Records of the Gq.Pmal Assembly Forty-sixth S&?W?ion, 
fia (A/46/35). 

91-47903 40112 (E) / . . e 



A1461L.35 
English 
Paye 2 

2. &quests the Department of Public Information, in full cooperation 
an% coordination vith the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights 
of the Palestinian People, to continue, with the necessary flexibility as may 
be requirsd by %evelopments aff-cting the question Of Palestine, its special 
information programme on the question of Palestine for the biennium 1992-1993, 
with particular emphasis on public opinion in Europe and North America and, in 
particular: 

(a) To disseminate information on all the activiticc c 
Nations system relating to the question of Palestine, . 
work Carrie% out by the relevant United Nations org7' 

rite% 
:ts of the 

(b) To continue to issue and update publicatior 
of the question of Palestine, including Israeli vj.c‘ 
of the Palestinian people and other Arab inhabi: 
territories aa reported by the relevant Wnitei 

3us aspects 
‘Tan rights 

tid 

(c) To expand its audio-visual material 
including the production of such material; 

.n of Palestine, 

(%) To organiz.. and promote fact-finding nr-. nissions for journalists 
to the area, including to the occupied territories; 

(e) To organize internation l, regional an% national encounters for 
journalists. 

----- 


