







































UNITED 
NATlON§ 

A 

General Assembly 

Distr. 
LIMITED 

A1461L.31 
3 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 37 

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA 

. 
Blcerra. Cuba, Indonesia. Ku wait. New Zealand. Nicaram 

. . . a, Norwav. Ukraine and Unzted Heoublic of Tanzanib: 
. 

draft resolutron 

a0 against Sou!-h..Africa 

v the report of the Intergovernmental Group to Monitor 
the Supply and Shippinq of Oil and Petroleum Products to South Africa, 11 

n its resolutions on the oil embargo against South Africa, in 
particular resolution 45/176 F of 19 December 1990, 

Recoon&&q the importance of the oil embargo as a major contribution to 
the pressure exerted bn South Africa towards the eradication of apartheid 
through negotiations, as well as the importance of maintaining pressure until 
there is clear evidence of profound and irreversible changes, bearing in mind 
the objectives of the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive 
Consequences in Southern Africa, 21 such ac the adoption of a non-racial and 
democratic constitution for a free South Africa, 

Rating that the most effective way to enforce the oil embargo against 
South Africa remains the adoption by the Security Council of a mandatory 
embargo under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, 

21 Resolution 5-3.611. annex, 

91-47055 33RRX (F) / . . . 



&/46/L.31 
English 
Page 2 

Concerned that the oil embargo against South Africa is still bsing 
violated and that South Africa, because of loopholes in the embargo, such as 
lack of effective legislation, has been s5le to acquire oil and petroleum 
products, 

w that an effective oil embargo against South Africa uould 
contribute to the efforts of the international community to brirly about a 
nsgotiatod settlement and the establishment of a united, non-y..xial and 
democratic South Africa, 

1. Takesnote of the report of the Intergovernmental Group to Monitor 
the Supply and Shipping of Oil and Petroleum Products to South Africa, J/ and 
endorses its recommendations; 

2. m all States to adopt, if they hava not already done so, and 
otberwise to maintain and enforce effective measures prohibiting the supply 
and shipping of oil and petroleum products to South Africa, whether directly 
or indirectly. and in particu.lar: 

(a) To apply strictly the "end users" clause and other conditions 
concerning restriction on destination to ensure compliance with the embargo; 

(b) To compel the companies originally selling or purchasing oil or 
petroleum products, as appropriate to each nation, to desist from selling, 
raaelling or otherwise transferring oil and petroleum products to South 
Africa, whether directly or indirectly; 

(c) To establish strict control over the supply of ail sad petroleum 
products to South Africa by intermediaries, oil companies and traders by 
placing responsibilities for the fulfilment of the contract on the first buyer 
or seller of oil and petroleum products who would, therefore, be liable for 
the actions of these partiost 

(d) To prevent South African companies from acquiring holdings in oil 
companies outside South Africat 

(8) To prohibit all assistance to South Africa in the oil sector, 
including finance, technology, equipment or personnelt 

(f) To prohibit the transport of oil and petroleum products to South 
Africa ty ships flying their flags, or by ships that are utlimately owned, 
managed or chartered by their nationals or by companies within their 
jurisdiction; 

(g) To develop a cystem for registration of ships, register& in their 
Ststes or owned by their nationals, that have violated the oil embargo, and to 
discourage such ships from calling at South African portst 

/ . . . 



A/46/L.31 
English 
Page 3 

(h) To impoie penal action against companies and individuals that have 
been involved in violating the oil embargo, and to publicise casea of 
succsssful prosecutions in conformity with their national laws; 

(i) To gather. exchange and disseminate information regarding violations 
of the oil embargo, including ways and means to prevent such violations, and 
to take concerted measures against violators; 

(j) To discourage ship8 within their jurisdiction from engaging in 
activities that give rise to violation of the oil embargo against South 
Africa, taking into account legislative and other measures already adopted; 

3. w to Member States for their consideration the draft model 
law annexed to the report of the Intergovernmental Group a/ and reconxnenda 
that they strive 17r an effective oil embargo by adopting the general 
principle of the model law within the framework of their own legal practices: 

4. m the Intergovernmental Group to take action to promote 
public awareness of the oil embargo against South Africa, including, when 
necetvaary, sending missions and participating in relevant conferences and 
meetings; 

5. &oueaa the Intergovernmental Group to submit to the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session a report on the implication of the 
present resolution; 

6. Bequests all States to extend their cooperation to the 
Intergovernmental Group with all necessary assistance for the implementation 
of the present resolution. 

----- 


