







































UNITED
NATIONS

A

- . _--__-

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A / 4 6 / 6 7 5
22 November 1991
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Forty-sixth session
Agenda item 62

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS
AND DECISIONS ADOPTED BY

RanDorteur:

I. INTRODUCTION

“(a9

“(b9

“(c9

“Cd9

“(d9

“(f 9

Report of

Report of

Status of

Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters:

Ilnited Nations Institute for Disarmament Research;

Economic and social consequences of the armaments race and its
extremely harmful effects on world peace and security:

“lg9

“b9

"(i)

Comprehensive programme of disarmament:

Cessation of the nuclear-arms

Prevention of nuclear war"

91-39851 0647P  (E9

in@emeatation of the recommendations and <decisions
General Assembly at its tenth special session:

the Disarmament Commission;

the Conference on Disarmament;

multilateral disarmament agreements;

race and nuclear disarmament;

/ . . .



1v46/615
RZkglhh
Page 2

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-sixth session of the
General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 36192 R Of 9 December
1981, 38/1,u3 0 of 20 December 1983, 39/148 H of 17 December 1984, 43178 J Of
7 December 1988, 44/119  A of 15 December 1989 and 45162 B to E and G Of
4 December 1990.

2, At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 10 October 1991, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely,
items 47 to 65. The deliberations on those items took place between the
3rd and 24th meetings, from 14 October to 30 October (see A/C.1/46,*PV.3-24).
Consideration of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place
between the 25th and 37th meetings, from 4 to 15 November (see
A/C.1/46/PV.25-37).

4. In connection with
following documents:

item 62, the First Committee had before it the

(a) Report of the

(b) Report of the

(c) Report of the
Matters (A/46/400);

Conference on Disarmament: JJ

Disarmament Commission; 21

Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the status of multilateral
disarmament agreements (A/46/604);

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Matters: United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (A/46/334);

(f) Note by the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Matters: United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research: request for
subvention to the Institute resulting from the recommendations of the Board of
Trustees of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research contained in
document A/46/334 (AK.5146111);

(g) Letter dated 21 May 1991 from the Permanent Representatives of
Hungary and Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Sep,*seary-Genezal,
transmitting the text of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic
of Hungary and the Goverlrment  of Romania on the Establishment of an Open Skies
Regime, signed at Bucharest on 11 May 1991 '(A/46/188-5/22638);

I/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fortv-sixth Session,
Guovlement No. 27 (A/46/27),

21 Ibid., Suonlement  No. 42 (A/46/42).

/ . . .



A/46/675
English
Page 3

(h) Letter dated 1 July 1991 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Netherlands to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Declaration on
non-proliferation and arms exports , made by the European Council on
29 June 1991 (A/46/289);

(i) Letter dated 10 July 1991 from the Charg&s d'affaires of the
Permanent Missions of Argentina and Braail to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of resolution 271 (XII) adopted
by the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the
Caribbean at its twelfth regular session entitled "FOZ de Iguaou Declaration
on the joint nuclear policy of Argentina and Brazil", adopted on 9 May 1991 in
Mexico City (A/46/297):

(j) Letter dated 9 July 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the texts of the Communiq& of the Political Consultative
Committee of the Warsaw Treaty Member States , which met at Prague on
1 July 1991, and the respective Protocol on terminating the validity of the
Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, signed at Warsaw on
14 May 1955, and of the Protocol on extending its%validity, signed at Warsaw
on 26 April 1985 (A/46/300-S/22782):

(k) Letter dated 29 July 1991 from the Chargh d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Egypt to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/46/329-S/22855);

(1) Letter dated 23 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/46/493);

(m) Letter dated 11 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/46/592-5/23161):

(n) Letter dated 8 November 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
the Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/46/621-S/23201):

(0) Letter dated 2 October 1991 from the Pern,-went Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Sesretary-General (AX.114614);

(p) Letter dated 7 October 1991 from the Charg& d'affaires of the
Permanent Mission of the Republic of Albania to the United Nations addressed
to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/46/6):

(q) Letter dated 25 October 1991 from the Permanent Representative of
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/46/12).

/ . . .



A/46/675
Bnglish
Page 4

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draftresolution'

5. on 25 October, Austria, Brasil,  Cameroon. Czechoshmkiae  Ecuador.  ante
Ethiouia, Germanv.  Hunuarv. Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of). Pakistan.

, m and Poland submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report of the
Disarmament Commission" (A/C.1/46/L.3),':%vhich  was later also sponsored by
Romania. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative Of Austria
at the 28th meeting, on 6 November.

6. At its 32nd meeting, on 8 November. the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/46/L.3 without a vote (see para. 13, draft resolution A)*

B. Draft resolution AX.11461L.12

7. on 30 October, Bolivia. Indonesia, Mexico. Mvanmar and Sri Lanka
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Comprehensive programme of disarmament"
(A/C.1/46/L.12),  which was later also sponsored by Costa Rica. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 28th meeting,
on 6 November.

8. At its 34th meeting, on 12 November, the Cosanittee adopted draft
resolution AX.11461L.12  by a recorded vote of 98 to 6, with 30 abstentions
(see para. 13), draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: 91

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, C8te d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar. Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swasiland,  Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab

$1 Subsequently, the delegations of Rwanda and Zaire indicated
they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution, and the
delegation of Italy indicated that it had intended to abstain.

that

/ . . .



A/46/675
English
Page 5

Against:

Abstaininq:

Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

Belgium, France, Germany, Netherlands, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America-

Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guimm PohmL
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Turkey,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/46/L.21

9. On 31 October, Algeria. Braail, Cambodia. Colombia, Cuba. Ecuador. Eovnt
Ethiooia. India. Indonesia, Iran (Islamic ReDublic of), Madacrascar, MalaVSia,
Mexico. Morocco. Mvanmar. Niueria. Pakistan, Peru. Sri Lanka. Venezuela.
Viet Nam and X#roslavia  submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report of the
Conference on Disarmament" (A/C.1/46/L.21), which was later also sponsored by
Bolivia and the Lao Peonle's  Democratic Reoubliq. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at the 31st meeting, on
7 November.

10. At its 34th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution AX.11461L.21 by a recorded vote of 104 to 8, with 24 abstentions
(see para. 13, draft resolution C). The voting was as follows: 41

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus. Benin, Bhutan,

Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C8te d'Ivoire; Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji. Ghana,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,.
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman.
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal; Singapore,
Sri Linka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,

41 Subsequently, the delegations of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire
that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

indicated

/ ..*



A/46/675
English
Page 6

Acrainst:

Abstaining:

Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Warn, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

Belgium, France, Germany, Italy. Luxembourg, Netherlands,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Albania, Argentina, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Israel,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

D. Drf rg

11. On 1 November, Afin in r ail rman Hunu r
India. Peru,- and Uruuuav submitted a draft resolution entitled "The
transfer of high technology with military applications'* (A/C.1/46/L.29), which
was later also sponsored by Bolivia and CM. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Brazil at the 27th meeting, on 5 November.

12. At its 34th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A.fC.1/46/L.29  without a vote (see para. 13, draft resolution D).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THS FIRST COMMITTEE

13. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

*R l w f ion
andision h ral A t.its tenth snecaal session

A

Reuort of the Disarmament Commission

The General Assembly,

Havinu considered the annual report of the Disarmament Commission, 5/

5/ Gfficial Records of the General Assembly. Forty-sixth Session,
-4 (A/46/42).S

/ . . .



A/46/615
English
Page 7

C-g the role that the Disarmament Commission has been called upon
to play and the contribution that it should make in examining and submitting
recommendations on various problems in the field of disarmament and in.the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant decisions of the tenth special
session,

&L&&X its resolution 45/62 B of 4 December 1990,

1. Takes note of the annual report of the Disarmament Commission;

2. Notes with satisfaction that the Disasmament Commission has
successfully implemented its reform programme and has made considerable
progress on substantive items on its agenda, pursuant to the "Ways and means
to enhance the functioning of the Disarmament Commission" adopted at its 1990
'substantive session; &/

3. Recalls the role of the Disarmament Commisison as the specialised,
deliberative body within the United Nations multilateral disarmament machinery
that allows for in-depth deliberations on specific disarmament issues, leading
to the submission of concrete recommendations on those issues;

4. Reauests the Disarmament Commission to continue its work in
accordance with its mandate, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, and with
paragraph 3 of resolution 37178 IL and to that end to make every effort to
achieve specific recommendations on the items on its agenda, taking into
account the adopted "Ways and means to enhance the functioning of the
Disarmament Commission":

5. Stresses the importance for the Disarmament Commission to work on
the basis of a relevant agenda of disarmament topics, thereby enabling the
Commission to ccncentrate its efforts and thus optimise its progress on
specific subjects in accordance with resolution 37/78

6. m that the Disarmament Commission,
organixational  session, adopt the following items for
1992 Substantive session:

(i) Objective information on military matters;

at

at its i991
its consideration at the

(2) Process of nuclear disarmament in the framework of international.
peace and security, with the objective of the elimination of nuclear
weapons;

(3) Regional approach to disarmament within the context of global
security:

61 A/CN.10/137 of 27 April 1990.

/ . . .



A/46/675
English

Also reouesa the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not
exceeding four weeks during 1992 and to submit a substantive report to the
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session:

8. Reauests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament
Commission the annual report of the Conference on Disarmament, I/ together
with all the official records of the forty-sixth session of the General
Assembly relating to disarmament matters, and to render all assistance that
the Commission may require for implementing the present resolution;

9. Also reauests the Secretary-General to ensure full provision to the
Commission and its subsidiary bodies of interpretation and translation
facilities in the official languages, and to assign, as a matter of priority,
all the necessary resources and services to this end;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh
session the item entitled “Report of the Disarmament Commission".

B

ComDrehensive Droaramme of disarmament

The General Assemblv,

Recallinq  its resolution 2602 E (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it
declared the decade of the 1970s as a Disarmament Decade and requested,
inter alia, the then Conference of the Connnittee on Disarmament to work out "a
comprehensive programme, dealing with all aspects of the problem of the
cessation of the arms race and general and complete disarmament under
effective international control, which would provide the Conference with a
guideline to chart the course of its further work and its negotiations'*,

Recallina also its resolution 35/46 of 3 December 1980, by which it
adopted the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second'Disarmament  Decade, which,
inter ali&, called for the elaboration of the comprehensive
disarmament with the utmost urgency,

Recallina further its resolution 45/62 E of 4 December
requested the Conference on'Disarm*ent to re-establish, at
its 1991 session, the Ad Hoc Commit;tee  on the Comprehensive
Disarmament,

-

programme of

1990, in which it
the beginning of
Programme of

I/ pfficial Records of the General Assemblv, Forty-sixth Session,
Suuulement No. 27 (A/46/27).

/ . . .



A/46/675
English
Page 9

Bearinu in mind the conciusions reached by the Ad Hoc Committee on the
Comprehensive Programme of Disarmament in its report of 1989 to the effect
that "it should resume work with the view to resolving the outstanding issues
in the near future, when circumstances are more conducive to making progress
in this regard", &/

Convinced that a comprehensive programme of disarmament would provide an
appropriate framework for the various multilateral, bilateral and unilateral
initiatives and proposals put forward recently,

Considerinq that the present international situation is conducive to a
ren@wed effort towards the conclusion of the comprehensive programme of
disarmament,

Considerina also that the conclusion of the elaboration of the
comprehensive programme of disarmament would constitute an important
contribution to the success of the Third Disarmament Decade and to the
strengthening of the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament,

1. Reauests the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish, at the
begiMing of its 1992 session, the Ad Hoc Committee on the Comprehensive
Progremme of Disarmament;

2. Recommends that the Ad Hoc Committee on the Comprehensive Programme_ _
of Disarmament resume its work, building on the texts already agreed to, with
the view to resolving the outstanding issues and thus concluding negotiations
on it:

3. Decides_ to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh
session the item entitled "Comprehensive programme of disarmament'*.

C

ReDOrt of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assemblv,

Recallinq  its previous resolutions, in particular resolution 45162
4 December 19900

Iiavina considered the report of the Conference on Disarmament, 9/

D of

m Ibid., Fortv-fourth Session, Sunnlement No, 27 (A/44/27), para. 100
(para. 7 of the quoted text). ’

e/ Ibid., Fortv-sixth Session, Suoolement No. 27 (A/46/27).

/ . . .



A/46/675
English
Page 10

Convinced that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
negotiating body on disarmament, should have the primary role in substantive
negotiations on priority questions of disarmament,

&xntessina  its rearet that the Conference on Disarmament was not able in
1991 to connnence  negotiations on the nuclear issues on its agenda,

Sxoressina its exoectation that the Conference on Disarmament, in view of
the positive current process in some fields of disarmament, will be in a
position to reach concrete agreements on disarmament issues to which the
United Nations has assigned the greatest priority and urgency and which have
been under consideration for a number of years,

.
Consider ing that in the present international climate it is more than

ever imperative to give additional impetus to negotiations on disarmament at
all liavels,

Takina note with satisfaction of the relevant paragraphs of the report of
the Conference on Disarmament on the progress towards improved and effective
functioning of the Conference m/ and expressing the hope that the process
will continue in all aspects of its work,

1. Reaffirms the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international community;

2. Welcomes the progress in the negotiations on the elaboration of a
draft convention on the complete and effective prohibition of the development,
production, stockpiling and use of all chemical weapons and on their
destruction, and urges the Conference on Disarmament to intensify its work
with a view to completing negotiations on such a draft convention in 1992;

3. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to strengthen its work,
within the framework of ad hoc committees as the most appropriate mechanism,
and to adopt concrete measures on the specific priority issues of disarmament
on its agenda, in accordance with the Programme of Action set forth in
section III of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly; J&/

4. JTraes the Conference on Disarmament to provide negotiating mandates
to ad hoc connnittees on all agenda items, in keeping with the fundamental role
of the Conference as identified in the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session:

5. Peauests the Conference'on Disarmament to submit a report on its
work to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session:

&Q/ Ibid, paras. 14-17.

&&/ Resolution S-1012.

/ . . .



A/46/615
English
Page 11

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh
session the item entitled "Report of the Conference on Disarmament".

D

The transfer of hiah technolouv  with militarv applications

The General Assemblv,

Having considered the annual report of the Disarmament Commission, 121

Takina note of the report of Working Group IV of the Disarmamert
Commission on the agenda item entitled "The role of science and technology in
the context of international security, disarmament and other related
fields", &3/

Considerinq,  in this connection, the interest expressed in the Working
Group in continuing the consideration of the question of the transfer of high
technology with military applications, bearing in mind the proposal for
seeking universally acceptable international norms or guidelines to regulate
such transfer,

Recoanizinq that norms or guidelines for the transfer of high technology
with military applications should take into account legitimate requirements
for the maintenance of international peace and security, while ensuring that
they do not deny access to high technology products, services and know-how for
peaceful purposes,

1. Calls uvon the Disarmament Commission to continue its consideration
within the scope of its agenda of all relevant aspects of the question of the
transfer of high technology with military applications at its 1992 session,
with a view to concluding its work on this matter at its 1993 session:

2. Invites all Member States to make available to the Secretary-General
pertinent information and comments on this subject, taking into account
arrangements, laws and regulations related to international transfers of high
technology with military applications, as appropriate:

3. Reauests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its forty-seventh session, taking into account the information and
comments transmitted by Member States.

_____

J&/ Official Records of the General Assemblv, Fortv-sixth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/46/42).

l.J/ Ibid., para. 42.


