







































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/46/626
22 November 1991

ORIGINAL8 ENGLISH

Forty-sixth session
Agenda item 100

ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN ECONOMIC AND OTHER INTERESTS WHICH
ARE IMPEDING THF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON
THE GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND
PEOPLES IN TERRITORIES UNDER COLONIAL DGMINATIOR AND
EFFORTS TO ELIMINATE COLONIALISM, APARTHEID AND RACIAL

DISCRIMINATION IN SOUTHERN AFRICA

.&uDorteu: Mr. Yames KEMRER (New Zealand)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of ita forty-sixth session the item entitled:

*'Activities of foreign economic and other interests which are impeding
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories under colonial domination
and efforts to eliminate colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination
in southern Africa".

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Committee.

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 2nd to 6th and 14th to
17 meetings, between 1 October and 15 November (see A/C.4/46/SR.2-6, 14-17).

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the Fourth Committee decided, without
objection and in accordance with established practice, to consider, in
conjunction with agenda item 100, chapter V of the report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
relating to military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in

91-45459 0654P (E) / I..



A/46/626
Eng l i sh
Page 2

Terri tor ies  under  their  adminis trat ion which might  be  impeding the
implementat ion of  the  Declarat ion.  11

4. At the same meeting, the Vice-Chairman of the Special Committee, on
behalf  of  i t s  Rapporteur, made a statement in which he gave an account of t!le
relevant  act iv i t ies  of  the  Specia l  Committee  during 1991 and drew at tent ion to
chapter IV of the report of the Committee relating to item 100, JJ as well as
the relevant documentation (A/AC.10911073  and 1075-1078). The Vice-Chairman
also gave an account of the Committee’s consideration, in pursuance of
paragraph 12 of General Assembly decision 451406  of 20 November 1990, of the
quest ion of  mi l i tary  act iv i t ies  and arrangements  by  colonial  Poworc in
Terri tor ies  under  their  adminis trat ion which might  be  impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and drew attention to chapter V of the report of t h e
C o m m i t t e e ,  A/ as well as the relevant documentation (A/AC.109/1065,  1066 and
1070).

5. The general’ debate on the item took place from the 3rd to 6th meetings,
between 4 and 11 October.

6. At its 4th meeting, on 8 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request
for hearing to Mr. J. A .  Gone&lez-Gone&lee  (A/C.4/46/4). At the same meeting,
Mr. Gone&es-Gon&lee  made a statement.

7. At the 15th meeting, on 6 November, the  representat ive  of  the  Congo
i n t r o d u c e d  a m e n d m e n t s  (A/C.4/46/L.6)  to the draft resolution relating to
act iv i t ies  of for.eign economic and other  interests  contained in  document
A/46/23 (Part  III) , chapter IV, paragraph 12. The amondments consisted of the
f o l l o w i n g :

(a) The eighth preambular paragraph, which read!

“Stronglv  con&&g the col laborat ion by certa in  countr ies  with  the
racist  minority regime of South Africa in the nuclear field, which, by
providing that regime with nuclear equipment and technology, enables it
to  develop nuclear  and mi l i tary  capabi l i t ies  and to  become a  nuclear
Power, thereby s trengthening i t s  abhorrent  system of  apartheid,”

would be replaced byr

“Gravely  concerned that  certa in  countr ies ,  transnat ional
corpora t ions  and  in t e rna t iona l  f i nanc ia l  i n s t i t u t i on s  have  con t inued
their economic relations with. South Africa, I’:

11 see A/46/23 ( P a r t  I I I ) . To be incorporated in  QfffCial  Records  of
slement No. 23 (A/43/23).

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 3

(b) The ninth preambular paragraph, which read:

“m of the continuing need to mobilise world public opinion
against the involvement of foreign economic, financial and other
interests that obstruct efforts to eliminate colonialism and r a c i s m ,
particularly in South Africa , thereby violating the right o& the peoples
of colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination and
independence, to apply pressure on trensaational  corporations to re fra in
from any investment or activity in South Africa, to encourage a policy o f
systematic divestment of any financial or other interest in corporations
doing business with South Africa and to counteract all forms o f
collaboration with the apartheid regime,”

would be replaced by:

*‘w the crucial and decisive role the imposition o f
international sanctions has played in applying the necessary pressure o n
the South African regime to undertake significant measures towards t h e
erediaation of apartheid,“;

(c) Operative paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, which read:

II 6. &QG@v coSaemga  the collaboration of certain countries, in
particular Israel , with the racist minority regime of South Africa in the
nuclear field and calls upon those Governments concerned to refrain from
supplying that regime, directly or indirectly,  with instal lat ions,
equipment or material that might enable it to produce uranium, plutonium
and other nuclear materials, reactor6 or military equipment1

“7 , WV cm  the collaboration with the racist minority
regime of South Africa of certain countries a8 well as transnational
corporations that continue to make new investments in South Africa and
supyly  the regime with armaments, nuclear technology and all other
materials that are likely to buttress it and thus aggravate the threat to
wot ld peace ;

,@ 8. (Ilalle~ all States to take urgent, effective measure6 to
terminate all collaboration with the racist regime of South Africa, in
particular in the military and nuclear fields, and to refrain f r o m
entering into other relations which run counter to the maintenance o f
existing sanctions against the regime in violation of the relevant
resolution8 of the United Nation8 and of the Org I ,ieation of African
Uni tyt ”

would be replaced by!

1, 6. m all Government8 to observe fully the mandatory arms
embargo and requests the Security Council to monitor effectively the
strict implementation of the arms embargo;”

and the succeeding paragraphs would be renumbered accordingly.

/ . . .



A/46/626
Lag1 isb
Page 4

(d) The present operative paragraph 16 (new operative paragraph 14),
which readr

“16. w to mass  media , trade unions and non-governmental
organisstions, es well as individuals, to coordinate sad intensify their
efforts to mobilise international public opinion against  the policy of
the apsrtheid  regime of South Africa and to work towards the
non-rolaxstion  of existing measures against  that regime in order t o
aucelerats  the procoeo of  consti tut ional  changeI’*

would be replaced byz

“14. m to ma68 media, trade unions and non-governmental
organi8ations , a8 well as individuals, to continue their efforts to
mobilise international public opinion against the relaxation of existing
measures against the regime, in order to accelerate the process of
consti tut ional  cbanqetf’.

8. At the same meeting, the representative of the Congo also introduced
amendments  (A/C.4/46/t.7)  to the draft  decis ion relat ing to mil i tary
activitiec and arrangements by colonial Powers contained in document A/46/23
(Part III), chapter V, paragraph 11, according to which:

(a) Paragraph 5, which read:

w 5. The General Assembly notes with serious concern that, in
routbern  Africa in qJnera1, a  cr i t i ca l  situatioa  continues  to prevail  0s
a result of South Africa’s inhuman repremion of the people of S o u t h
Africa, and declares that the policy of apartheid and destabilieation  not
o?aly undermines the peace and stability of the southern African region
but also constitutes a threat to international peace and security.”

would be replaced byr

“5. The General Assembly welcomes the important changes taking
place in South Africa aimed at facilitating the commencement o f
euhstantive constitutional negotiations. The Assembly notes that, these
developments notwithstanding, the fun&mental basis of apartheid,
including the undemocratic constitution, is yet to be acldressed.ll

(b) Paragraph 6, which readr

“6. The C?eneral  Assembly condemn6 the continued military, nuclear
and intelligence collaboration between South Africa and certain
countries, which constitutes a violation of the arms embargo imposed
against South Africa  by the Security Council in its resolution 418 ( 1 9 7 7 )
of 4 November 1977, and which poses a threat to international peace end
security. The Assembly urges the Security Council to consider, r).s a
matter of urgency, the report of the Committee established undsr its

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 5

resolution 421 (1977) of 9 December 1977 21 and to adopt further measure6
to widen the scope of its resolution  418 (1977) in order to make it more
effective end comprehensive. The Assembly also calls for the scrupu lous
observance of Security Council resolution 558 (1984) of 13 December 1984
enjoining all Btates to refrain from importing armaments from South
Af rfca, The Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard of a series
of resolutions adopted by the Security Council, 91 the Qeneral  Assembly,
the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countriee
and Peoples and the Special Committee against Apartheid, a8 well as the
Movement of Non-aligned Countries, the Organisation of African Unity, the
Commonwealth an8 a number of intergovernmental and regional
organisations .I*

“2/ Official  Rewde o f  the_ T&tv-fj$th year #
for JuJ..y,  wt s 198Q, document  6114179.

“31 Security Council resolutions 567 (1985) of 20 June 1985,
568 (1985) of 21 June 1985, 571 (1985) of 20 September 1985, 574 (1985)
of 7 October 1985, 577 (lC85) of 6 December 1985, 580 (1985)  of
30 December 1955, 581 (1986)  of 13 February 1986, 602 (1987) o f
25 November 1987 and 606 (1987) of 23 December 1987.”

would be replaced by:

“6. The General Assembly notes with grave concern revelations of
covert funding and collusion by the South African regime with certain
political organisations and report6 of the involvement of its security
forces in perpetrating act6 of v io lence .”

(c) Paragraph 7, which read8

“7 . The General Assembly considers that the acquisition of
nuclear-weapon capability by the racist regime of South Africa, with its
infamous record of violence and aggression, constitutes a further effort
on its part to terrorise and intimidate independent States in the region
into submission while also posing a threat to all mankind. The Assembly
condemns the continuing support to the racist regime of South Africa in
the military and other fields. In thie context, the Assembly expresses
its concern at the grave consequences for international Peace and
security of the collaboration between the racist regime of South Africa
and certain Western Powers, Israel and other countries in the military
and other fields. It calls upon the States concerned to end all s u c h
collaboration and, in particular, to halt the supply to South Africa of
equipment, technology, nuclear material6 and related training, which
increases its capabilf  ty to manufacture nuclear weapons. ‘1

/ . . .



A/46/626
Englieh
Page 6

would bo replaced by:

(8 7. The Qeneral Assembly deplores the continued military, nuclear
sad intelligence collaboration between South Africa and certain
oountriec,  whioh conotitutes  a v io la t ion  of the arm@ embargo  impooed
against South Africa by the Security Council in its reeolutione
418 (1977) and 558 (1984) and urges their etriot enforaemsnt  by Member
States until a new post-apartheid South African Qovsrnment ie firmly
eetabliehed with full democratic control and accountability.@*

(d) Paragraph 8, which read1

M
8. The Qeneral Assembly strongly condemns the continuing

oollaboration  of aertcrin  countries with the raaist regime in the military
and nualeat fields and expresses its conviction that such collaboration
ia in aontraventioa  of the arms embargo imposed against  South Afriaa
under Security Council resolution 418 (1977) and undermine8  international
eolidarity  against the apartheid regime, The Aesembly thue aalls for the
termination forthwith of all such collaboration.”

would be replaced by:

(0 0. The Qeneral Aesembly  urges the Seaurity Council to remain
vigilant in the monitoring and the reporting of violations of the arms
embargo imposed by its resolutions 418 (1977) and 568 (1984) aed to
provide information on a regular basis to the Secretary-Qeneral  for
general distribution to Member Statee.”

(e) After the new paragraph 8, a new paragraph 9 reading as follow8
would be inserted:

“9. The Qeneral Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard o f
the Abuja Declaration on South Africa adopted on 5 June 1991 by the
Assembly of Heads of State and Qovernment  of the Organisation of Afriaaa
Unity st its twenty-seventh session, the report of the Tenth Conference
of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, adopted et
Accra on 7 September 1991, and the Harare Comnuniqud  of the Conxnonwealth
Heads of Qovermnent  Meeting of 21 Oatober 1991.”

and the succeeding paragraphs would be renumbered accordingly.

9. At the 17th meeting, on 15 Nouember, the representative of Qabon, on
behalf of the Qroup of Afriaan States, introduced amendments (APC.4/46/L.12)
to the draft resolution relating to activities of foreign economic and other
interests  contained in document A/46/23 (Part III), chapter IV, paragraph 12.
The amendments consisted of the following:

(a) The eighth proambular paragraph, which reed!

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 7

“w  the codlaboration  by certain countries  with the
racist minority regime of South Africa in the nuclear field, which, by
providing that regime with nuclear equipment and technology, enables it
to develop nuclear and military Capabilities and to become a nuclear
Power, thereby strengthening its abhorrent system of apartheid,”

would be replaced by:

Wravelv mce that certain countries,  transnational
corporations and international financial institutions have continued
their economic relation8 with South Africa,”

(b) The ninth preambular paragraph, which read:

*‘m  of the continuing need to mobilise world public opinion
against the involvement of foreign economic, financial and other
interests that obstruct eKforts to eliminate colonialism and racism,
particulerly  in South Af rice, thereby violating the right of the peoples
of colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories to Self-determination and
independence, to apply pressure on transnational corporation8 to refrain
from any investment or activity in South Africa, to encourage a policy of
systematic divestment of any financial or other interest in corporation8
doing bUSiUe86  with South Africa and to counteract all forms of
collaboration with the apartheid regime,”

would be replaced byr

*‘Em the crucial and deCi8iV0 role the imposition o f
international sanctions ha8 played in applying the necessary pressure on
the South African regime to undertake significant measures toward8 the
eradication of apartheid,”

(c) Operative paragraph 6, which read:

“6 m wym  the collaboration of  certain countries,  in
particular Israel , with the racist minority regime of South Africa in the
nuclear field and calls upon those Governments concerned to refrain from
supplying that regime, directly or indirectly,  with instal lat ions,
equipment or material that might enable it to produce uranium, plutonium
and other nuclear materials, reactor8 or military equipmentr”

would be deleted.

(d) Operative paragraph 7, which r-eadr

II 7. -condemns the collaboration with the racist minority
regime of South Africa of certain countries a8 well as transnational
corporations that continue to make new investments in South Africa and
supply the regime with armaments, nuclear technology and all other
materials that are likely to buttress it and thus aggravate the threat to
world peace z ”

/ . . I



A/46/626
English
Page 6

would be replaced by the following new operative paragraph 6r

“6. WV cm the collaboration with the South African
regime by certain countries a8 well a8 transnational  corporation8 that
continue to make new investments in South Africa and supply the raCi8t
regime with armaments, nuclear technology and all other material8 that
are likely to buttress it and thus aggravate the threat to world peace)”

(e) A new operative paragraph 7 reading a8 follow8 would be ineertedr

“7 . v all States to maintain the existing meaaurea against
the apartheid regime a8 specified in the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Deetructive Consequence8 in Southern Africa;”

(f) Former operative paragraph 6 would be deleted and the succeeding
paragraph8 would be renumbered accordingly.

(g) Former operative paragraph 16, which readr

“16.  m to ma88  media , trade unions and non-governmental
organisations, as well as individuals, to coordinate and intensify the ir
efforts to mobilise international public opinion against the policy of
the apartheid regime of South Africa and to work toward8 the
non-relaxation of existing measures against that regime in order t o
accelerate the process of constitutional change;”

would be replaced by the following new operative paragraph 15;

“15.  m to mass media, trade unions ano non-governmental
organizations, as well  as  individuals , to continue their effort8 in the
struggle against apartheid and the mobilixatioa  of international  public
opinion against the policy pursued by the South African apartheid regime
and to oppose the relaxation of existing meaaurea against the regime, i n
order to accelerate the process of consti tut ional  changet”.

10. At the same meeting, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of t h e
African Group, also introduced amendment8 (A/C.4/46/L.13) to the draft
decision relatintg  to military activities and arrangement8 by colonial Powers
contained in document A/46/23 (Part
to which:

(a) Paragraph 5, which read!

“5. The General Assembly

III), chapter v, paragraph 11, according

notes with serious concern that, in
southern Africa in general, a critical situation Continue8 to prevail as
a result of South Africa’8  inhuman repreesion of the people of S o u t h
Africa, and declare8 that the policy of apartheid and destabilization  not
only undermines the peace and stability of the eouthern  African region
but also constitutes a threat to international peace and security.”

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 9

would be replaced by:

“5. The Qeneral  Assombly wolcomee the important changes taking
place in South Africa aimed at facilitating the commencement of
substantive constitutional negotiations. The Assembly notes that, these
developments notwithstanding, apartheid remains firmly entrenched and
that as a result  there is a ooatinuiag  threat to the peace and security
of the region. ”

(b) A new paragraph 6 reading as follows would be inserted:

“6. The General Assembly notes with grave concern revelations of
covert funding and collusion by the South African regime with certain
political organisations and reports of the involvement of its security
forces in perpetrating acts of violence.”

(c) Former paragraph 6, which read:

“6. The general Assembly condemns the continued military, nuclear
and intelligence collaboration between South Africa and certain
countries, which constitutes a violation of the arms embargo imposed
against South Africa by the Security Council in its resolution 418 (1977)
of 4 November 1977, and which poses a threat to international peace and
security. The Assembly urges the Security Council to consider, as a
matter of urgency, the report of the Committee established under its
resolution 421 (1977) of 9 December 1977 21 and to adopt further measures
to widen the scope of its resolution 418 (1977) in order to make it more
effective and comprahonsive. The Assembly also calls for the scrupulous
observance of Security Council resolution 558 (1984) of 13 December 1964
enjoining all States to refrain from importing armaments from South
Africa. The Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard of a series
of resolutions adopted by the Security Council, 91 the general Assembly,
the Special Committee  on the Situation with regard to the Implementation
of the Declaration on the granting of Independence to Colonial Countries
and Peoples and the Special Committee  against Apartheid, as well as the
Movement of Non-aligned Countries, the Organisation of African Unity, the
Commonwealth and a number of intergovernmental and regional
organisations .‘I

would be replaced by the following new paragraph 7:

I, 7. The general Assembly condemns the continued military, nuclear
and intelligence collaboration between South Africa and certain
countries, which constitutes a violation of the military embargo irrposed
against South Africa by the Security Council in its reeolution 418 (1977)
of 4 November 1977, and which poses a threat to international peace and
security. The Assembly urges the Security Council to consider, as a
matter of urgency, the report of the Security Council Committee
established by resolution 421 (1977) of 9 December 1977, and to adopt
further measures to widen the scope of resolution 418 (1977) in order to

/ . . *



A/46/626
English
Pege 10

make it more effective and comprehensive. The Assembly calls for an
immediate end to all forms of such collaboration. The Assembly further
calls for scrupulous observance of resolution 558 (1984) o f
13 December 1984, by which the Security Council enjoined Member States to
refrain from importing armaments from South Africa.”

(d) Former paragraph 7, which read:

0 7. The General Assembly considers that the acquisition o f
nuclear-weapon capability by the racist regime of South Africa, with its
infamous record of violence and aggression, constitutes a further effort
on its part to terrorise and intimidate independent States in the region
into submission while also posing a threat to all mankind. The Assembly
condemns the continuing support to the racist regime of South Africa in
the military and other fields. In this context, the Assembly expresses
its concern at the grave consequences for international peace and
security of the collaboration between the racist regime of South Africa
and certain Western Powers, Israel and other countries in the mil i tary
and other fields. It calls upon the States concerned to end all such
collaboration and, in particular , to halt the supply to South Africa o f
equipment, technology, nuclear materials and related training, which
increases its capability to manufacture nuclear weapons.”

would be replaced by the following new paragraph 8:

9, 8. The General Assembly considers that the acquisition of
nuclear-weapon capability by the South African regime, with its infamous
record of violence and aggression , constitutes a further effort on its
part to terrorise and intimidate independent States in the region into
submission. The Assembly condemns the continuing support to the South
African regime in the military and other fields. In this context,  the
Assembly expresses its concern at the grave consequences f o r
international peace and security of the collaboration between the
apartheid system in South Africa and certain Western Powers, Israel and
other countries in the military and nuclear f ields. It calls upon the
States concerned to end all such collaboration and, in particular, t o
halt the supply to the apartheid system of equipment, technology,
materials and training enabling the regime to increase its capability to
manufacture nuclear weapons.”

and the present paragraph 8 would be renumbered as new paragraph 9.

(e) A new paragraph 10 reading as follows would be inserted before
former paragraph 9r

“10. The General Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard of
the Abuja Declaration on South Africa adopted on 5 June 1991 by the
Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organisation of African
unity at its twenty- seventh  ses s ion , the report of the Tenth Conference
of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, adopted at

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 11

Accra on 7 September 1991, and the Harare Communiqu&  of the Commonwealth
Heads of Qovernment  Meeting of 21 October lY91.“,

and the succeeding paragraphs would be renumbered accordingly.

ii. At the same meeting, the representative of the Congo informed the Fourth
Committee that his delegation had withdrawn amendments A/C.4/46/L.6 and L.7,
respectively, to the draft resolution relating to activities of foreign
economic and other interests (A/46/23 (Part III), chap. IV, para. 12) and to
the draft decision relating to military activities and arrangements by
colonial Powers (A/46/23 (Part III), chap, V, para. 11).

12. At the 17th meeting, on 15 November, the Fourth Committee took the
following action on the draft resolution (A/46/23 (Part III), chap. IV,
para. 12) and the amendments thereto (A/C,4/46/L.12)8

(a) The Committee adopted the amendment to the eighth preambular
paragraph by a recorded vote of 84 to 1, with 42 abstentions. 21 The voting
was as  followea 21

Infavourl Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritanie,  Mexico, Mozambique,
Myanmar*  Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Qnan, Pakistan,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanxania,  Vanuatu, Venexuela, Viet Uam,  Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

21 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives
of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Botswana, the Congo, Greece, Hungary, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Malawi, the Netherlands (on behalf
also of the European Community), New Zealand, Norway (on behalf also of
Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Sweden), Papua New Guinea, Spain, the Union O f
Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America, Uruguay and
Venexuela.

31 Subsequently, the representative of Latvia announced that, had his
delegation been present at the time of the voting, it would have abstained in
the vote.

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 12

Bcrainst: United States of America.

-1 Albania, Australia, Auetriar BcllgiW  Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia,  Fiji, Finland,  France,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Bungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan , Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malawi, Marshall Islands, Miaronesia (Federated State6 Of),
Netherlande,  New Zealand, Norway, Pansma, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Spain,
Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay, Yugoslavia.

(b) The Committee adopted the amen&neat  to the ninth presmbular
paragraph by a recorded vote of 89 to none , with 37 abatentione.  21 T h e
voting was as follows; a/

In: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda.
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,  Brasil,  Brurrsi  Darussalsm,
Burkina Fast, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China,  Colombia,
Congo, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Raiti,  India, Indonesia,
Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamshiriya,  Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Morocwo~
Momambique,  Myanmar  , Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia,
Sao Tome and Principe,  Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Surinmne,  Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emiratee,  United Republic o f
Tanzania, United States of America, Vanuatu, V*aeauela,
Viet Nzm, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainstr None.

iuuLainina2 Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, R8tCdiar  Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luzembourg, Malawi,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay.

/ . . .



A / 4 6 / 6 2 6
English
Page 13

(c) The Committee adopted the amendment to delete former operative
paragraph 6 by a recorded vote of 88 to 1, with 37 abstentions. 21 The voting
Wa6 a 6  fOllOW62 31, a/

Infavourt Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswane,  Braeil,  Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon,
Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Israel, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Moeambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Thailead,  Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Taneania, Vanuatu, Vene6uela,
Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainst: United States of America.

-A Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Ceechoslovakia,  Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, FranCer
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall Islands,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ircland, Uruguay.

(d)  The Committee adopted the amendment t:) former operative paragraph 7
by a recorded vote of 78 to 4, with 40 abstentjons.  21 The voting was as
fOl10W62 a/

avow I Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, BBhamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 0enin, Bhutan, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussa1666,  Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Chile, China, Colombia, Cotigo,  Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Renya, Kuwait,  Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Chnan,

41 SUb66gWntly, the delegation of the United States informed the
Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 14

Pakistan, peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia*
Sao home  and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone*
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tun!.sia,  Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania,  Vanuatu, Venemuela,  Zaire, Zanbia,
Zimbabwe.

Aaainett Belarus, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United States of America.

-r Albania, Australia, AuBtria,  Belgium, Bulgaria,
Ceechoslovakia,  Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay, Yugoslavia.

(e) The Committee adopted the amendment to insert a new operative
paragraph 7 by a recorded vote of 86 to 1 , with 38 abstentions. 21 The voting
was as  follower  3.l

In: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentine,  Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, RelarUS,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Branil,  Brunei Darussalamr
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahfriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Moeambique,  Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Qnan, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,  Suriname,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Acreinstt United States of America,

Absx Albania, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,  Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Republic o f
Korea, Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay.

/ *..



A / 4 6 / 6 2 6
English
Page 15

(f) The Committee adopted the amendment to delete former operative
paragraph 8 by a recorded vote of 86 to none, with 40 abstentions. 21 The
voting was a6 follows: I/

In: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarue,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,  Brunei DBrUBSahm,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia,
Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Moeambique,  Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,  YUgOSlavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

-8 None.

Abstaininal Albania, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of) ,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
State6 of America, Uruguay.

(g) The Committee adopted the amendment to former operative paragraph 16
by a recorded vote of 86 to 1, with 38 abstentions. 21 The voting was as
follows:

I-: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braeil,  Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 16

Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mosambique,  Myenmar,  Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sferra  Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Social ist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic o f
Taneania,  Vanuatu, Veneeuele,  Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Acraiaset United States of America.

Abeg Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Caechoslovakia,  Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Qermany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Korea, Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom
of areat Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay.

(h) The Committee adopted as a whole, as amended, the draft resolution
contained in document A/46/23 (Part III), chapter IV, par:draph  12, by a
recorded vote of 67 to 33, with 15 abstentions (see para. 14). 2/ The voting
was as follows:

In: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Braxil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti,
ECuador,  Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, India, Indonesia,  Iran (Islamic Republic of),  Iraq,
Jamaica,~ Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, (hen,
Pakistan, Papua Yer Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.



A/46/626
English
Page 17

Acraindltr Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Csechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Qermany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel ,  Italy,  Japan.
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain,
Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of Amer ica .

Absteininar Afghanis tan ,  Argent ina ,  Bslaruar  Chte d’Ivoira, Fiji,
Malawi, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Fedbratad  States of),
Panama, Republic of Korea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Ukraine,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Uruguay.

13. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee took action on the draft
decision (A/46/23 (Part III), chap. V, pars. 11) axrd the amendments thereto
(A/C.4/46/L.13),  as  fol lows!

(a) The Committee adopted the amendment to paragraph 5 by a recorded
vote of 85 to none, with 39 abstentions. 21 The voting was as follows;

Infavourl Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola , Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarua,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Rrasil, Brunei Daruasalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,  Gabon,
Ghana, Gu..nea,  Guyana, Haiti,  India, Indonesia, Jamaica,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mrjldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mosambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet SOCialiSt
Republics,  United Arab Emirates, United Republic Of
Tanzania,  V a n u a t u ,  Venemuela,  Viet Nam, Yu~~oSlavia~  Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Anainstr None.

Abstainina: Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark,
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel ,  I taly,  Japan,  Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithua,?ia,  Luxembourg, Malawi, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay.



A/46/636
English
Page 16

(b) The Committee adopted the amendment  to insert a new paragraph 6 by a
recorded vote of 66 to none, with 39 abstentions. 21 The voting was a8
follows:

Imfevaurl Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Arqe&ina,  Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarue,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,  Braail, Brunei Daruesalem,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, C&e d’lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt ,  Eth iop ia ,  Qabon,  Qhana,  Quinea,  Quyana, Hait i ,  India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of 1, Jamr.;ca, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratia Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mosambique,  Myanmar , Namibia, Nepal,
Niger, Niger ia , (man, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and PrinCip8,  Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanaania,  Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam,  Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainstt None.

mt Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Dertixrk, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hunqary, Icela 6, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall
Islanda,  Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Yugoslavia.

(c) The Committee adopted the amendmant to former paragraph 6 by a
recorded vote of 61 to 4, with 35 abstentions, 21 The voting was a8 followst

-favourl Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Qabon, Ghana, Quinea, Quyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia,
Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Libyan AraD Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Priucipe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapora,  Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nem, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 19

Aaainstl ‘Belarus,  Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United States of Amlsrica.

Abstainina, Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, fkWmanyt
Greace,  Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Samoa, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Yugoslavia.

(d) The Committee adopted the amendment to former paragraph 7 by a
recorded vote of 61 to 5, with 56 abstentions. 21 The voting was as
follows: li/

In_favourr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh,  Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei
Daruzsalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, China, Cuba, Djibouti,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana. India,
Indonesia, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore,  Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, VanUatUr  Viet Name
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

acreinstr Belarus, Israel, Ukraine, Union of Soviet SOCialiSt
Republics, United States of BmSriCa.

mr :-:.bania,  A r g e n t i n a , Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cete
d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Haiti, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall Islands,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic o f
Korea, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa,  Senegal, Spain, 8Weden,
Togo, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay, Venezusla, YUgOSlSViS.

-

I/ Subsequsntly, the delegation of Panama announced that it had
intended to abstain in the vote.

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 20

(e) The Committee adopted the amendment to insert a new paragraph 10 by
a recorded vote of 90 to none, with 35 abstentions. a/ The voting was as
followsl

Infavourc Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil, Brunei Dafussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador ,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Qabon, Quinea, Quyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldivss, Mali, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mexico, Moroaao, Mosambique, Myanmar,  Namibia,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria ,  &an, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Kdanda,  Saint Lucia,  Samoa, Sao Tome and

. Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Union of Soviet  Social is t
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic Of
Tanzania, Vanuatu, Venesuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavian Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

hbstaininat Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Csechoslovekia, Denmark,  Estonia, Finland, Fiance, Oermany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Isratil,  Italy, Japan,
Latvia, LiezhLenstein,  Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Cheat
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay.

(f) The Committee adopted as a whole, as amended, the draft decis ion
contained in document A/46/23 (Pert III), chapter V, paragraph 11, by a
recorded vote  of  86 to 33, with 12 abstentions (see para. 15). 21 The  vo t ing
was as follows:

Infevourt Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,  Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brasil, Brunei Darussalam,  Burkina Faso, Burundi, Camer7on,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egyl;t, Ethiopia, Qabon, Qhane, Quinea, Quyana,
Hait i ,  India,  Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia ,  Maldives ,  Mal i ,  Maucitsnia, Mexico,  MOrOCCoI
Mozambique,  Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, O m a n ,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Quinea, Peru, Philippines,

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 21

Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, 8ao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri tarhI
Suriname, Swaeiland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand. Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, TunisJl.a,  Uganda, United Arab Emirate%
United Republic of Tansania, Vanuatu, Venezuela,  Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aoeinst, Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Ceechoslovakie,  Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Framer Gormaw,
Greece, Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel ,  Italy,  Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherhmk
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain,
Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of Amer ica .

kkstaininar Argentina, Belarua, C&e d' Ivoire, F1jir Malawi, Micronesia
(Fedorated States of), Republic of Korea,  Samoa,  Solomon
Islands, Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Uruguay.

/ . l .



A/46/626
English
Page 22

RECGWENDATIONS  OF THE  FOURTH CCWITTRR

14. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution;

ivi&.g  o f  for- eco&Qc ~_RtherLi.&terestewhich
JJlmanatheon o f  the *=-on On -
Orentinu..of_--
-Territorias

in southern

u cow the item entitled “Activities of foreign economic and
other interests,which are impeding the implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories
under colonial domination and efforts to eliminate colonialism, apartheid and
racial discrimination in southern Africa”,

tlpyfi~.&pti  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, fi/

Re.callincr its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
as well as all other relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly on
this subject, including,  in part icular, resolution 43147 of 22 November 1988
declaring the period 1990-2000 as the International Decade for the Eradication
of Colonialism,

D the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their
administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those
Territories against abuses,

D that those economic and other activities which impede the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and obstruct efforts aimed at the elimination o f
colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination in South Africa and in
colonial  Territories  are in direc t viclation  of the rights  of t h e  i n h a b i t a n t s
and of the principles of the Charter and all relevant resolutions of the
United Nations,

61 A/46/23  (Pert III), chap. IV.

/ l . .



A/46/626
English
Page 23

uyconcerned  about the activities of those foreign economic,
financial and other interests which continue to exploit the natural resources
that irrs the heritage of the indigenous populations of the colonial and
Non-Self-Qoverning Territories in the Caribbean, the Pacific and other
regions , a8 well as their human resources, to the detriment of t h e i r
intereats,  thus depriving them of their rights to control the resources of
their Territories and impeding the realisatioa by those peoples of their
legitimate aepiratiolrs f6r self-determination and independence,

urnn the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
succeeeive Conferences of Heads of State or Qovernmeat of Non-Aligned
Countries and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the Organisation of African Unity,

.
Ugwlv concerned  that  certain countries, transnational  corporations and

international financial institutions have continued their economic relations
with South Africa,

Re.coan the crucial and decisive role the imposition of in ternat iona l
sanctions has played in applying the necessary pressure on the South African
regime to undertake significant measures towards the eradication of apartheid,

1. BOlprovea  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the itemt 21

2. Reaffirma  the inalienable right of the peoples of colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination and independence and to
the enjoyment of the natural rescurces of their Territories, as well as their
right to dispose of those resources in their beet interests;

3. Reiterates that any administering or occupying Power that deprives
the colonial peoples of ths exercise of their legitimate rights over t h e i r
natural resources or subordinates the rights and interests of those peoples to
foreign economic and financial interests violates the solemn obligations it
has assumed under the Charter of the United Nations)

4. Reaffirms its concern over the activities of those foreign e c o n o m i c ,
financial and other interests which continue to exploit the natural resources
that are the heritage of the indigenous populations of the colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories in the Caribbean, the Pacific and other
regions, as well as their human resources, to the detriment of t h e i r
interests, thus depriving them of their right to control the resources o f
their Territories and impeding the realisation by those peoples of their
legitimate aspirations for self-determination and independence z

11 General Assembly resolution S-1611, annex.

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 24

5. Ca.?demns  those activities of foreign economic and other interests  in
the colonial Territories which are impeding the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Coloniel Countries and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), and the effort8 to
eliminate colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination;

6. w cm the collaboration with the South African regime by
certain countries as well as transnational  corporations that continue to make
new investments in South Africa and supply the racist regime with armaments,
nuclear technology and $11 other materials that are likely to buttress it and
thus aggravate the threat to world peace;

7. S&lls yapg all States to maiataiu  the existing measures against the
apartheid regime as specified in the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa1 11

8. u_up~D all Government8 that have not yet done so to
take, in accordance with the relevant provisions of General  Assembly
resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other
measures in respect of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their
jurisdiction that own and operate enterprise8 in colonial Territories that are
detrimental  to the interests of the inhabitant8 of those Territories, in order
to put an end to such enterprises and to prevent new investment8 that run
counter to the interests of the inhabitant8 of those Territories1

9. Calls. those oil-producing and oil-exporting countries that have
not yet done so to take effective measures against the oil companies concerned
so as to terminate the supply of crude oil and petroleum products to the
racist regime of South Africa!

10. -rates that the exploitation end plundering of the marine and
other natural re8ource8  of colonial and Non-Self-Qoverning Territories by
foreign economic interests, in violation of the relevant resolutions of the
United Nstions  , are a grave threat to the integrity and prosperity of those
Territoriest

11. J,&.&~B all Government8 and organisation8 of the United Nations
system to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty
of the people 4 of colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories over their
natural re8ources is fully respected and safeguarded)

12. !&gas  the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures
to safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of t h e
colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories to their natural resources and to
establish and maintain control over their future development, and request8 the
administering Powers to take all necessary steps to protect the property
rights of the peoples of those Territories;

13. v the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no
discriminatory and unjust wage systems or working conditions prevail in the
Territories under their administration and to apply in each Territory a
uniform system of wages to all the inhabitants without any discriminationr

/ . . .



A/46/626
English
Page 25

14, &~DB,&B the Secretary-General to continue, through the Department
of Public Information of the Secretariat, to inform world public opinion of
those activities of foreign xonomic  and other interests which are impeding
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples;

15. m to mass media, trade uniJne and non-governmental
organisations, as well as individuals, to continue their efforts in the
struggle against apartheid and the mobilisation of international public
opinion against the policy pursued by the South African apartheid regime and
to oppose the relaxation of existing measures against the regime, in order to
accelerate the process of constitutional changer

16. Deciaes  to continue to monitor closely the situation in the colonial
and Non-Self-Governing Territr,ries so as to ensure that all economic
activities in those Territories are aimed at strengthening and diversifying
their economies in the interest of the indigenous peoples and at promoting the
economic and financial viability of those Territories, in order to facilitate
and accelerate the exercise by the people of those Territories of their r i g h t
to self-determination and independence1

17. Barn the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continua to examine this question and to report
thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session.

15. The Fourth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision!

v activ&j,@s  and arrmts bv colM&
Terrftories ygder their

of the De-on oa
GraofC&2&L!&unt.&.& to

and Peoom

1. The General Assembly, having considered the chapter of the report of
the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples relating to an item on the agenda of the Special Committee entitled
“Military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under
their administration which might be impeding the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples” 5/ and recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 196G and all
Other relevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to

B/ A/46/23 (Part III), chap. V.

/ I..



A/46/626
English
Page 26

military activities in colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories, reaffirms
its strong conviction that military bases and installations in the Territories
concerned could constitute an obstacle to the exercise by the people of those
Territories of their right to self-determination and reiterates its strong
views that existing baeea and installations, which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, should be withdrawn and that no further entrenchment
should be condoned.

2. The General Assembly reaffirms that it is the responsibility of t h e
administering Powers to ensure that the existence of military bases and
installations does not hinder the population of the Territories f r o m
exercising their rights to self-determination and independence in conformity
with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the
Declaration. Furthermore, aware of the presence of such bases and
installations in some of those Territories, the Assembly urges the
administering Powers concerned to continue to take all necessary measures not
to involve those Territories in any offensive acts or interference against
other States, and to comply fully with the purposes and principles of the
Charter .

3. The General Assembly reiterates its condemnation of all military
activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their
administration which might run counter to the rights and interests of the
colonial peoples concerned, especially their right to self-determination and
independence. The Assembly once again calls upon the colonial Powers
concerned to terminate such activities and to eliminate such military bases in
compliance with the relevant resolutions of the Assembly.

4. The General Assembly reiterates that the colonial Territories and
areas adjacent thereto should not be usod for nuclear testing, dumping o f
nuclear wastes or deployment of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction.

5. The General Assembly welcomes the important changes taking place in
South Africa aimed at facilitating the commencement of substantive
constitutional  negotiat ions. The Assembly note6 that, these developments
notwithstanding, apartheid remains firmly entrenched and that as a result
there is a continuing threat to the peace and security of the region.

6. The General Assembly notes with grave concern revelations of covert
funding and collusion by the South African regime with certain political
organisations and reports of the involvement of its security forces in
perpetrating acts of violence. *

7. The General Assembly condemns the continued military, nuclear and
intelligence collaboration between South Africa and certain countries, w h i c h
constitutes a violation of the military embargo imposed against South Afr ica
by the Security Council in its reSOlUtion  418 (1977) of 4 November 1977, and
which poses a threat to international peace and security. The Assembly urges
the Security Council to consider, as a matter of urgency, the report of t h e



A / 4 6 / 6 2 6
English
Page 27

Security Council Committee establisheb  by resolution 421 (1977) of
9 December 1977 9.1 and to adopt further measures to widen the scope of
resolution 418 (1977) in order to make it more effective and comprehensive.
The Assembly calls r’or an immediate end to all forms of such collaboration.
The Assembly further calls for scrupulous observance of resolution 558 (1984)
of 13 December 19R4, by which the Security Council enjoined Member States to
refrain from importing armaments from South Africa.

8. The General Assembly considers that the acquisition of
nuclear-weapon capability by the South African regime, with its infamous
record OF violence and aggression, constitutes a further effort on its part to
terrorise and intimidate independent States in the region into submission.
The Assembly condemn6 the continuing support to the South African regime i n
the military and other fields. In t.his context , the Assembly expresses its
concern at the grave consequences for international peace and security of the
collaboration between the apartheid system in South Africa and certain Western
Power6, Israel and other countries in the military and nuclear fields. It
calls upon the State6 concerned to end all such collaboration and, in
p a r t i c u l a r , to halt the supply to the apartheid system of equipment,
technology, materia ls  and training enabl ing the  regime to  increase  i t s
capability to manufacture nuclear w e a p o n s .

9. The General Assembly strongly condemns the continuing collaboration
of certain countries with the racist regime in the military and nuclear fields
and expresses  i ts  convict ion that  such collaboration is in contravention of
the arms embargo imposed against South Africa under Security C o u n c i l
resolution 418 (1977) and undermine6 international solidarity against the
apartheid regime. The Assembly thus calls for the termination forthwith of
all such  co l l abora t i on .

10. The General Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard of the
Abuja Declaration on South Africa adopted on 5 June 1991 by the Assembly of
H e a d s  of State and Government of the Organieation of African Unity at its
t w e n t y - s e v e n t h  s e s s i o n ,  .lQ/ the report of the Tenth Conference of Ministers
for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, adopted at Accra on
7 September 1991, and the Harare Communiqu6  of the Commonwealth Heads of
Government M?etinq of 21 October 1991.

11. The General  Assembly urges all Governments, the specialized  agencies
and other  intergovernmental  organizat ions  to  provide  increased mater ia l
assistance to the thousands of refugees who have been forced by the oppre s s i v e
policies of the eyartheid regime in South Africa to  f lee  into the neighbouring
States and for the purpose of refiettlement  of those who are returning.

91 Qfr~Cial.~.P_a.~r.d6.__0..5.  t.h8  Secur.i.ty_Sounc_#1.~  -Thirty4  if-Lb_Ys_a~..l
SW2aWUQI_JL~l~anLS.eptgmber  L$W, document S/ 14179.

-IQ/ See A/46/390 ,  annex I I .

/ . . .



A/46/62f’
English
Paqe  ?8

12, The General Assembly deplores the continued alienation of land in
colonial Territories,  particularly in the small island Territories of the
Pecific  and Caribbean regions, for military installations. The large-scale
utilixation  of 00 local resources for this purpose could adversely affect the
economic development of the Territories concerned.

13. The General  Assembly request8 the Secretary-General to continue,
through the Department of Public Infoi’nlation  of the Secretariat, to inform
wcrrld public opinion of the facts concerning the military activities and
arrangement6 in colonial TerFitOFieS  which are impeding the implementation of
the Declaration on t.he Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, contained in Assembly resolution 1514 (XV).

14. The General Assembly reque6ts the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this
question and to report thereon  to the Assembly at its forty-seventh session,


