







































WITED
NATIQNS

A
Genel’gl  Assembly Distr.

GENERAL,

A/46/676 '
25 November 1991
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Forty-sixth session
Agenda item 63

ISRAELI NUCLEAR ARMAMENT

ReDOrt of the First Committee

Rauuorteur: Mr. Pablo Emilio SADEB (Uruguay)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament'* was included in the
provisional agenda of the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly in
accordance with Assembly resolution 45163 of 4 December 1990.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1991, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First 'Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on lO.October 1991, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely,
items 47 to 65. The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd
and 24th meetings, from 14 to 30 October (see A/C.1/46/PV.3-24).
Consideration of an action on draft resolutions on those items took place
between the 25th and 37th meetings , from 4 to 15 November (see
A/C.1/46/PV.25-37).

4. In connection with item 63, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli nuclear armament
(A/46/569);

(b) Letter dated 29 July 1991 from the ChargG d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Egypt to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/46/329-S/22855):

91-45533 0661P (E) / . . .



A/46/676
Knglirrh
p-2

(c) Letter dated 19 September 1991 from'the Permanent Representative of
Turkey to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the tax&of the documents adopted by the twentieth Islamic Conference of
Fereiga Ministers, held at Istanbul from 4 to 8 Augris$'i991 (A/46/486-S/23055):

(d) Letter dated 23 September 1991 from the Permanent Representative Of
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-Geaeral (A/461493).

.*,
II. CONSIDERATIOK OF DRAE'T RRSOLUTIONS A/C.1/46/L.24

AND Rev.1 ‘.

5. .On 1 November, aria. Bahrazn. . .Dlabouti, Jordan, Kuwait. Lebanon. the
.eb J-a, Mauritania, Morocco. Oman, Qatar. Saudi Arabia,

&~9&j,& the sudlaa, the Syrian Arsb ReDublic, Tunisia.'the United Arab
&&KR&~ and yeSnen submitted a draft resolution entitled '*Israeli nuclear
armamsnt" (A!C.1/46/L.24), which was later also sponsored by Ecnrp.

6. On 13 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/46/L.24/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by Malavsia. The
revised draft resolution contained the following changes:

(a) Pa the third preirfilbular paragraph, the words "of 19 June 1981" were
deletedo

(b) Ia the sixth preambular paragraph, the words "in paragraph 12 of
which Iarael was condemned for continuiug to develop its nuclear military
programmes  and weapons of mass destruction and for its refusal to implement
the resolutions of the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy
Agency in this regard" were replaced by "and in particular its paragraph 12,
which relates to Israel's nuclear capabilities";

(c) At the end of the eighth preambular paragraph, the phrase "to
develop nuclear weapons and their delivery systems" was replaced by "in
developing their delivery systems'*;

(d) Operative paragraph 1. which had read:

"1. Reiterates its condemnation of Israel's refusal to renounce  any
possession of nuclear weapons'*,

was’ revised to read:

"1. &plorea Israel's refusal to renounce possession of nuclear
wapons";

(e) Operative paragraph 2, which had read;

H2. R&&p8tes also its condemnatioa  of the coop&ration  between
Israel and South Africa in the military nuclear field".

/ . . .



A/46/676
English
Page 3

was revised to readr ."(%. *

"2. &wresses'grave  coacera at the cooperatioa betweea Israei and
South Africa in the military nuclear fields'*.

7. At its 36th meetiag;,"ba 15 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/46/L.24>Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 65 to 3, with
64 abstentions (see para. 8). The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour:

Aoainst:

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Bhuta&',Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Camerooa, Cape Verde, Chad, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Guinea, Guyana, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanoa, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Meacico,  Morocco, Moaambique,  Namibia, Nicaragua,
Niger;Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland.
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo. Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda; United Arab Kmiretes, United Republic of Tanaania,
Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

Israel, Romania, United States of America.

Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Braril, Bulgaria, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada. Haiti, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Latvia,
Lesotho, Liberia, Liechteasteia, Lithuania. Luxembourg,
Malta, Mongolia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama,
Papua New Guiaea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Samoa, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Spain, Swedea,
Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom
of Grsat Britaia and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Veaeauela,
Zaire.

III. RECOMMKNDATIOR  GF TRK FIRST COlWITTKK

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

w Subsequently. the delegation of the Congo iadicated  that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



English
Page 4

Bearinu  in mia its previous resolutions on Israeli nuclear armament, the
1a:est of which is resolution 45163 of 4 December 1990,:

Recalling ita resolution 441108 of 15 December 1989, in which,
.r al+pi it called for placing all nuclear facilities in the region under

InternatioLal  Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, pending the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free aone in the Middle East,

Recallina als;p that the Security Council, in its resolution 487 (19811,
called upon Israel urgently to place all its nuclear facilities under the
Agency safeguards,

l?otina with urave concern Israel's persistent refusal to commit itself
not to manufacture or acquire nuclear weaponsr despite repeated calls by the
General Assembly, the Security Council and the International Atomic Energy
Agency,

Sakinu note of resolution GC (3GDKV) REW570, adopted on 20 September 1991
by the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency,

Tak'iau  into consideration the final document on international security
and disarmament adopted by the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to
7 September 1989, Z/ and in particular its paragraph 12, which relates to
Israel's nuclear capabilities,

Deeniv alarmed by the information with regard to the continuing
production, development and acquisition of nuclear weapons by Israel and its
testing of their delivery systems in the Mediterranean and elsewhere, thus
threatening the peace and security of the region, and equally alarmed by
reports of Israel's placing on alert its nuclear arsenal during conflicts in
the Middle East,

Aware of the grave consequences,that endanger international peace and
security as a result of Israel's development and acquisition of nuclear
weapons and Israel's collaboration with South Africa in developing their
delivery systems,

Deenlv concerned that Israel has not committed itself to refrain from
attacking or threatening to attack safeguarded nuclear facilities,

1. DeDlOres Israel's refusal to renounce possession of nuclear weapons;

21 See A/44/551-S/20870,  annex.

/ . . .



A/46/676
English
Page 5

2. Exoresses crave concern at the cooperation between Israel and South
Africa in the'military nuclear fields:

3. Exoresses its deer, concern regarding the information on Israel's
continuing production, development and acquisition of nuclear weapons and
testing of their delivery systems:

4. Reaffirms that Israel should promptly apply Security Council
resolution 487 (1981), in which the Council, inter alia, requested it to place
all nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards and
to refrain from attacking or threatening to attack nuclear facilities;

5. Calls uuon all States and organizations  that have not yet done so
not to cooperate with or give assistance to Israel that could enhance its
'nuclear-weapons capability;

6. Reauestg the International Atomic Energy Agency to inform the
Secretary-General of any steps Israel may take to place its nuclear facilities
under Agency safeguards:

7. Requests the Secretary-General to follow closely Israeli nuclear
activities and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh
session:

8. pecides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh
session the item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament".


