







































UNITED 
NATIONS 

General Assembly Distr. 
LIMITED 

A/46/L.27 
2 December 1991 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISR 

Forty-sixth session 
Agenda item 19 

IMPLEMRNTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRAWING OF 
INDEPENDEtlCE TO COLONIAL COUDTRIES AND PEOPLES 

. 1 Afahanrstan,uerin. -0. C19a, hrhiooia, Ghana. 
lit wnua New 

. ic, -a IJkrw 
f vu, m Viet Nark, Yuaoslwla. 

. . Ut re~ob&uxi 

* v the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 21 

&g&,&g its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries an3 Peoples, 
and all its previous resolutions concerning the implementation of the 
Declaration, most recently resolution 45/34 of 20 November 1990, as well as 
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 

&~~g&&g that the eradication of colonialiom is one of the priorities 
of the Organizatfon for the decade 1990-2000, 

Deeulv conscious of the need to take, speedily, measure5 to eliminate the 
last V8Sfigt35 of colonialism by the year 2000, as called for in resolution 
43141 of 22 November 1366, 

Reiterating it5 conviction of the need for the elimination of 
colonialism, as well as of the need for the total eradication of racial 
discrimination, apartheid and violations of basic human rights, 

11 A/46/23 (Parts I-VII.). 

91-46770 39752 (E) / . . . 



A/&i/L,27 
English 
Page 2 

Conscious that the su~ceus of national liberation struggles aud the 
resultant international rituatfon provided the international community with a 
unique opportunity to make a decisive contribution twards the elimiuation of 
colonialism in all it4 forma and mnoifestations, 

- the achievements of the Special Committee in 
contributing to the effective and complete implementation of the Declaration 
and other relevant resolutions of the United Nation8 on decolonization, 

Gtressina the importance of the participation of the administering Powers 
in the work of the Special Committee, 

w with- the cooperation and active participation of some 
administering POvers in the work of the Special Committee, as vell aa their 
continued readiness to receive United Nations visiting missions in the 
Territories under their administration, 

the negative impact which the non-particiyation 
of certain administering Powers has had on the work of the Special Committee, 
depriving it of an important 8oufCe of information on the Territories under 
their administration, 

m of the pressing need of newly independent and emerging Stat88 for 
assistance from the Unit.d Nations and its system of orqaaizations in the 
economic, social and other fields, 

iUtZL.alsoO f tine pressing need of the remaining Non-Self-Governing 
Territories, including particularly the small island Territories, tier 
.lconomic, social and other assistance from the United Nations and the 
organ3.zatione within its system, 

1. Beaffirms its resolution 1514 (%V) aad all other resolutions OA 
decolonizetioa, including its resolution M/47 which declarea the period 
1990-2000 as the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, aad 
call6 upon the administering Powers. in accordance with those resolutions, to 
take all necessary steps to enable the peoples of the Territories cancernetS to 
exercise fully 88 soon as possible their right to self-determination and 
independenoer 

2. $&&irms once aw that the continuation of colonialism in any form 
or manifestation - including racism, apartheid and economic enploitntion, as 
well as policies and practices to suppress legitimate national liberation 
moveInQnta - is incompatible with the Charter of the United Nations, the 
Universal Declaration OE Human Rights 21 and the Declaration on the Grantinq 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoplao and poses a threat t.o 
international peace and security; 

21 Resolution 217 A (III). 



A/46/L. 27 

English 
Page 3 

. . 
3. j&&&&Bits- to continue to take all steps necessary 

to bring about the complete and speedy eradication of colonialism and the 
faithful and strict observance by all Statas of the relevant provisions of the 
Charter, the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and Peoples and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; 

. 
4. BEfcogco acraig its support for the struggle of the peoples under 

colonial rule to exercise their righ 5 to self-determination and independence: 

5. Jm~rov~& the report of the Special Committee on the Situation vith 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Pe*Jplas covering its work during 1991, 
including the programme of work envisaged for 19921 a/ 

6. v all States, in particular the administering Powers, as 
well as the specialised agencies and other organizations of the United Nations 
system, to give effect within their respective spheres of competence to the 
recommendations of the Special Committee for the speedy implementation of the 
Declaration and ot.har relevant resolutions of the United Nations; 

7. &b&c&S the activities of foreign economic and other interests that 
are impeding the implementation of the Declaration as vell as the elimination 
of colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination: 

8. Q&&k-R the administsriaq Powers to ensure that no activity of 
foreign economic and other interests in the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
under their administration hinders the peoples of those Territories from 
exercising their right to self-determination and independence8 

9. Stronglv condemns any nuclear collaboration with the Government of 
South Africa and calls upon any States that are so involved to cease all such 
collaboration forthwith; 

10. Calls up.9~ the administering Powers to terminate military activities 
in the Territories under their administration and to eliminate military bases 
there in compliance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and 
urges them not to involve those Territories in any offensive acts of 
interference against other States; 

11. Uraes all States, directly and through their action in the 
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, to 
provide moral and material assistance to the peoples of colonial Territories 
and requests that the administering Powers, in consultation with the 
Governments of the Territories under their administration, take steps to 
enlist and make effective use of all pomible assistance, on both a bilateral 
and multilateral basis, in the strengtheninq of the economies of those 
Territories: 

31 A/46/23 (Part I), chap. I, sect. J. 

/ . . . 



A/46/t. 27 

English 
Page 4 

12. m the Special Committee to continue to seek suitable means 
for the immediate and tull implementation of the Declaration and to carry out 
those actions approved by the General Assembly regarding the International 
Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism in all Territories that have not yet 
attained independence and, in particular: 

(a) To formulate specific proposals for the elimination of the remaining 
manifestations of colonialism and to report thereon to the GeLera Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session: 

(b) To make concrete sugyestions which could assist the Security Council 
in considering appropriate measures under the Charter with reyard to 
developments in colonial Territories that are likely to threaten international 
peace and security; 

(c) To continue to examine the corc>liance of Member States with 
resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions on decolonisation; 

(d) To continue to pay special attention to the small Territories, in 
particular through the dispatch of regular visiting missions, and to recommend 
to the General Assembly the most suitable steps to be taken to enable the 
populations of those Territories to exercise their right to self-determination 
and in%epenaence; 

(e) To take all necessary steps to enlist world-wide support among 
Gcvernments, as well as national and international organizations, for the 
achievement of the objectives of the Declaration and the implementation of the 
relevant resolutions of the I'iited Nations; 

13. w the administering Powers to continue to cooperate with 
the Speciai Committee in the discharge of its mandate and to receive visiting 
missions to the Territories to secure first-hand information and ascertain the 
wishes and aspirations of thefr inhabitants: 

14. Purthet the administering Powers that have not 
participated in the work of the Special Committee to do so at its 1992 session: 

15. Beaueats the Secretary-General., the specialized agencies P*'. other 
organisations of the United Nations system to provide economic, socAa1 and 
other assistance to the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to continue to do 
801 as appropriate, after they exercise their right to self-determination and 
independence; 

16. Resussta the Secretary-General to provide the Special Committee with 
the facilities end services required for the implementation of the present 
resolution, as well as of the other resolutions and decisions on 
decolonisation adopted by the General Assembly and the Special Committee. 


