








































UNITED'
NATIONS

A

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Distr.
GENERAL

Al47/691
4 December 1992

I.
. !'I

,,'.:' -'4",.; \. "'I."V ';,\_" ': j,,,,jj,,~~ j..,;..., "'.\-,.,'

..... ; -
• " !, •'( : ~

General Assembly

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 61

a

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jer2Y ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"General and complete disarmament:

"(a) Notification of nuclear tests;

"(b) Further measures in the field of disarmament for the prevention of
an arms race on the seabed and the ocean floor and in the subsoil
thereof;

"(c) Conventional disarmament;

"(d) Nuclear disarmament;

"(e) Defensive security concepts and policies;

"(f) Relationship between disarmament and development;

"(g) PrOhibition of the production of fissionable material for weapons
purposes;

.. (h) Prohibition of the development, production, stockpi ling and use of
radiological weapons;

.. (i) International arms transfers;

92-77602 0888P (E) 071292 081292 I . . ·

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 2

"(j) Regional disarmament;

lI(k) Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes;

"(1) Transparency in armaments;

"(m) Conventional disarmament on a regional scale;

"(n) Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons: 1995 Conference
and its Preparatory Committee"

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session of the
General Assembly, in accordance with Assembly resolutions 42/38 C of
30 November 1987, 44/116 0 of 15 December 1989, 45/58 C, D and 0 of
4 December 1990, 46/36 C, D, E, H, I and K of 6 December 1991, 46/36 L of
9 December 1991 and decisions 46/412 and 46/413 of 6 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and the 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.1/47/PV.3-21). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.31-40).

4. In connection with item 61, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; ~/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on international arms transfers
(A/47/314 and Add.l);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on conventional disarmament on a
regional scale (A/47/316 and Add.l and 2);

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27).

l/ Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42).

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 3

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the Register of Conventional Arms
(A/47/342 and Corr.I);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on further measures in the field of
disarmament for the prevention of an arms race on the seabed and the ocean
floor and in the subsoil thereof (A/47/362);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on transparency in armaments
(A/47/370 and Add.I-3);

(h) Report of the Secretary-General on the study on defensive security
concepts and policies (A/47/394);

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on the relationship between
disarmament and development (A/47/452);

(j) Note by the Secretary-General on the notification of nuclear tests
(A/47/3I3);

(k) Note by the Secretary-General on the notification of nuclear tests
(A/47/482);

(1) Letter dated 28 January 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/77-S/23486 and Corr.l);

(m) Letter dated 29 January 1992 from the Permament Representative of
the Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/79-S/23494);

(n) Letter dated 4 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Portugal to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/85):

(0) Letter dated 11 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the concluding documents of the Second Meeting of the Council of
Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe, held in Prague on 30 and 31 January 1992 (A/47/89-S/23576);

(p) Letter dated 18 February 1992 from the representatives of Argentina
and Brazil to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/92);

(q) Letter dated 25 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Pakistan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (AI47/93);

(r) Letter dated 26 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/47/96-S/23645);

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



..~.

A/47/691
English
Page 4

(s) Letter dated 28 April 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Argentina to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/181);

(t) Letter dated 27 April 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Sweden to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/183);

(u) Letter dated 22 May 1992 from the representatives of Indonesia and
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the press communique issued at the conclusion of the Ministerial
Meeting of the Coordinating Bureau of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Bali, Indonesia, from 14 to 16 May 1992 (A/47/225-S/23998);

(v) Letter dated 2 July 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Senegal to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/312-S/24238);

(w) Letter dated 17 July 1992 from the Permanent Representative of the
United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/341);

(x) Letter dated 30 July 1992 from the Permanent Representative of Spain
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/356-S/24367);

(y) Note verbale dated 11 September 1992 from the Permanent Mission of
Mexico to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/437);

(z) Letter dated 14 September 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Kuwait to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/47/441-S/245S9);

(aa) Letter dated 15 September 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Qatar to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the text of a statement issued by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the
Damascus Declaration countries at their sixth meeting, held at Doha, Qatar, on
9 and 10 September 1992 (A/47/449-S/24566);

(bb) Note verbale dated 14 October 1992 from the Permanent Representative
of the Bahamas to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/47/537-S/24672);

(cc) Letter dated 2 November 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Turkey to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/47/618-S/24747);

(dd) Letter dated 9 November 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/47/642-S/24780);

/ .. ,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/69l
English
Page 5

(ee) Note verbale dated 27 October 1992 from the Permanent Representative
of the Bahamas to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/C.l/47/9) .

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft decision A/C.l/47/L.3

5. On 26 October, Colombia and Peru submitted
"International arms transfers" (A/C.l/47/L.3).
introduced by the representative of Colombia at
5 November.

a draft decision entitled
The draft decision was
the 26th meeting, on

6. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.l/47/L.3 without a vote (see para. 39, draft decision I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.6

7. pn 27 October, Peru, on behalf of the States parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons: 1995 Conference and its
Preparatory Committee" (A/C.1/47/L.6). The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative .of Peru at the 24th meeting, on 3 November.

8. At the 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Secretary of the Committee made
a statement concerning the programme budget implications of the draft
resolution (see A/C.l/47/PV.31).

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.6
by a recorded vote of 133 to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 38, draft
resolution A). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Maldivesi Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 6

Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senega1, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Cuba, India.

C. Draft decision A/C.l/47/L.7

10. On 27 October, Peru submitted a draft decision entitled "Conventional
disarmament on a regional scale" (A/C.l/47/L.7). The draft decision was
introduced by the representative of Peru at the 22nd meeting, on 29 October.

11. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.1/47/L.7 without a vote (see para. 39, draft decision II).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.IO

12. On 28 October, Belgium, Canada, the Russian Federation and Sweden,
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of the development,
production, stockpiling and use of radiological weapons" (A/C .1/47 /L .10) • The
draft resolution was introduced by the representative of the Russian
Federation at the 26th meeting, on 5 November.

13. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.IO without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution B).

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.12

14. On 28 October, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Cameroon, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Indonesia, Ireland, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation,
Samoa, Sweden and Uruguay, submitted a draft resolution en.titled "Prohibition
of the production of fissionable material for weapons purposes"
(A/C.l/47/L.12), which was later also sponsored by Japan. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Canada at the 24th meeting,
on 3 November.

/ ....

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/69l
English
Page 7

15. At its 33rd meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.12 by a recorded vote of 133 to none, with 4 abstentions
(see para. 38, draft resolution C). The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussa1am, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, India, United Kingdom of Great Eritain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

F. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.13 and Rev.l and 2

16. On 28 October, Mauritania, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Group of African States, submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes"
(A/C.1/47/L.13). The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Kenya at the 30th meeting, on 11 November.

l/ Subsequently, the delegations of Peru and Latvia indicated that they
had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/69l
English
Page 8

17. On 13 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/47/L.13/Rev.l), which contained the following change: a new ninth
preambular paragraph was added, reading:

"Gravely concerned at the recently reported efforts to dump harmful
wastes in Somalia".

18. On 16 November, the sponsor submitted a further revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/47/L.13/Rev.2), which contained the following change:

(a) Operative paragraph 3, which had read:

"3. Also expresses grave concern at the recently reported efforts
to dump radiological and toxic wastes in Somalia"

was deleted, and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

19. At its 36th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.13/Rev.2 without a vote (see para. 38, draft
resolution D).

G. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.18

20. On 29 October, Argenti la, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Canada, the Central African Republic, Czechoslovakia. Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the
Russian Federation, Senegal, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Turkey, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of
America and Venezuela submitted a draft resolutior. entitled "Transparency in
armaments" (A/C.1/47/L.18), which was later also sponsored by Albania,
Armenia, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Haiti, Lesotho, Nepal, the Republic of Moldova,
Samoa and Singapore. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of the Netherlands at the 25th meeting, on 4 November.

21. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted
a statement on its programme budget implications (A/C.1/47/L.44).

22. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.18 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution E).

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.~0 and Rev.l

23. On 29 October, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, BUlgaria, Canada, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, New
Zealand, Pakistan, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian
Federation, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



b

A/47/691
English
Page 9

and the United States of America submitted a draft resolution entitled "Second
Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of
Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques"
(A/C.1/47/L.20). The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Australia at the 23rd meeting, on 2 November.

24. On 9 November, Algeria, Argentina, Australia. Brazil, BUlgaria, Canada,
Costa Rica, CUba, Cyprus, CzechoslQvakia, the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea. Egypt. Finland. Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy. Japan.
Kuwait, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, the Republic
of Korea. Romania. the Russian Federation, Sweden, the gnited Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States gf America submitted a
revised draft resolution (A/C.1/47/L.20/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored
by Albania. Bolivia. Haiti and Honduras, The revised draft resolution
contained the following changes:

(a) Operative paragraphS 5 and 6, which had read:

"5. ~ signatory States to ratify the Convention without delay;

"6. Invites and encourages those States which have not signed the
Convention to become party to it as soon as possible"

were deleted, and replaced by a new operative paragraph 5, reading:

"5. ~ all States that have not already done so to exert their
best endeavours to become parties to the Convention as early as possible,
and urges successor States to take appropriate action, so as ultimately
to obtain universality of adherence",

and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

25. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.20/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 38, draft
resolution F).

I. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L,23

26. On 30 October, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "RelationShip between disarmament and development"
(A/C.1/47/L.23), which was later also sponsored by Armenia. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Indonesia at the 28th
meeting, on 10 November.

27. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.23 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution G).

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/69l
English
Page 10

J. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.25

28. On 30 October, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Canada,
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, France, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal,
the Republic of Korea, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Regional disarmament" (A/C.l/47/L.25), which was later
also sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Burundi, Czechoslovakia, Haiti, Paraguay,
Poland, Senegal, Ukraine and the United States of America. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Peru at the 28th meeting,
on 10 November.

29. At its 32nd meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.25 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution H).

K. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.27

30. On 30 October, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Egypt, France, Germany,
Greece, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of). the Netherlands, Nigeria,
Poland and the Russian Federation, submitted a draft resolution entitled
"StUdy on defensive security concepts and policies" (A/C.l/4 7 /L. 27), which was
later also sponsored by Armenia and Ukraine.

31. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.27 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution I).

L. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.29

32. On 30 October, Albania, Austria, Be1arus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of
America submitted a draft resolution entitled "Confidence- and
security-building measures and conventional disarmament in Europe"
(A/C.1/47/L.29), which was later also sponsored by Armenia, Costa Rica,
Estonia and the Republic of Mo1dova. The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
at the 27th meeting, on 9 November.

33. At its 32nd meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.29 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution J).

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



r
J

t
I

A/47/69l
English
Page 11

M. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.35

34. On 30 October, Antigua and Barbuda, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, the Central African
Republic, Chile, Colombia, the Comoros, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Ecuador,
Egypt, Estonia, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Italy,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nepal, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Poland, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia. Senegal, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Toga, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela and Zimbabwe submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Regional disarmament" (A/C.1/47/L.35), which was later also sponsored by
Albania, Armenia, Burundi, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Haiti, Hungary, Kuwait,
Paraguay, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovenia and Zambia. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Pakistan at the
32nd meeting, on 12 November.

35. At its 32nd meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.35 by a recorded vote of 130 to none, with 4 abstentions
(see para. 38, draft resolution K). The voting was as follows: ~/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussala~, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,.Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's RepUblic of
Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Ireland indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 12

Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States
of kmerica, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Bhutan, Cuba, India, Lao People's Democratic Republic.

N. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.36

36. On 30 October, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are
members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Kor'ea,
Romania, the Russian Federation, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America submitted
a draft resolution entitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and nuclear
disarmament" (A/C.l/47/L.36), which was later also sponsored by Armenia,
Belgium, Costa Rica, Ireland, Kazakhstan and Samoa. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Indonesia at the 27th meeting, on
9 November.

37. At its 33rd meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.36 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution L).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

38. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

General and complete disarmament

A

Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons:
1995 Confe~ence and its Preparatory Committee

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2373 (XXII) of 12 June 1968, the annex to which
contains the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,

Noting the provisions of article X, paragraph 2, of that Treaty,
requiring the holding of a conference twenty-five 'years after the entry into

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



,
4

A./47/69l
English
Page 13

force of the Treaty, to decide whether the Treaty shall continue in force
indefinitely or shall be extended for an additional fixed period or periods,

Noting also the provisions of article VIII, paragraph 3, concerning the
convening of review conferences, which provides for quinquennial review
conferences,

Noting further that the last review conference took place in 1990,

Recalling that the Treaty entered into force on 5 March 1970,

Recalling also its decision 46/413 of 6 December 1991, by which it took
note of the intent of the parties to form a preparatory committee in 1993 for
the conference called for in article X, paragraph 2, of the Treaty,

1. Takes note of the decision of the parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, following appropriate consultations, to
form a preparatory committee for a conference to review the operation of the
Treaty and to decide on its extension, as called for in article X,
paragraph 2, and also as provided for in article VIII, paragraph 3, of the
Treaty;

2. Notes that the Preparatory Committee will be open to all the parties
to the Treaty and, if the Preparatory Committee so decides at the outset of
its first session, to States not parties, as observers, and will hold its
first meeting in New York f":,om 10 to 14 May 1993,

3. Requests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance
and to provide such services, including summary records, as may be required
for the 1995 Conference and its Preparatory Committee.

B

Prohibition Qf the deve1Qpment, prQductiQn c stockpiling
and use Qf radiological weapons

The General A.ssembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/36 E of 6 December 1991,

1. Takes note of the part of the repQrt of the Conference on
Disarmament on its 1992 session that deals with the question of radiological
weapons, in particular the report of the A.d Hoc Committee on Radiological
Weapons; .5./

~/ Official Records Qf the General A.ssemb1y, Forty-seventh SessiQn,
Supplement No. 27 (A./47/27), para. 80.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 14

2. Recognizes that in 1992 the Ad Hoc Committee made a further
contribution to the clarification of different approaches that continue to
exist with regard to both of the important sUbjects under consideration;

3. Takes note also of the recommendation of the Conference on
Disarmament that the Ad Hoc Committee on Radiological Weapons should be
re-established at the beginning of its 1993 session and that it should be
given guidance on reviewing the organization of its work with the aim of
fulfilling its mandate;

4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to continue its substantive
negotiation on the subject with a view to the prompt conclusion of its work,
taking into account all proposals presented to the Conference to this end and
drawing upon the annexes to the report of the Ad Hoc Committee, the result of
which should be submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all relevant documents relating to the discussion of all aspects
of the issue by the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Prohibition of the development, production,
stockpiling and use of radiological weapons".

C

Prohibition of the production of fissionable material
for weapons purposes

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/36 D of 6 December 1991 and previous
resolutions, in which it requested the Conference on Disarmament, at an
appropriate stage of the implementation of the Programme of Action set forth
in section III of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly .2./ and of its work on the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in
all aspects", to consider urgently the question of adequately verified
cessation and prohibition of the production of fissionable material for
nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices and to keep the Assembly
informed of the progress of that consideration,

Noting that the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament for 1992 included
the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects" and that the programme of
work of the Conference for all three parts of its 1992 session contained the
item entitled "Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament, 1/

Q/ Resolution 8-10/2.

2/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), para. 6.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
I

I

A/47/69l
English
Page 15

Recalling the proposals and statements made in the Conference on
Disarmament on those items, ~I

Welcoming the significant progress in reducing nuclear-weapon arsenals as
evidenced by substantive bilateral agreements between the Russian Federation
and the United States of America and unilateral undertakings by France, the
Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and the United States towards the reduction in some of their nuclear-weapons
programmes or of the numbers of nuclear weapons and their delivery systems as
well as regarding the disposition of fissile material,

Welcoming also the recent decision by the United States not to produce
plutonium or highly enriched uranium for nuclear explosive purposes,

Considering that the cessation of production of fissionable material for
weapons purposes and the progressive conversion and transfer of stocks to
peaceful uses would also be a significant step towards halting and reversing
the nuclear-arms race,

Considering also that the prohibition of the production of fissionable
material for nuclear weapons and other explosive devices would be an important
measure in facilitating the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons
and explosive devices,

1. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to pursue its consideration
of the question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of the
production of fissionable material for nuclear weapons and other nuclear
explosive devices and to keep the General Assembly informed of the progress of
that consideration;

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Prohibition of the production of fissionable
material for weapons purposes".

D

Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind resolutions CM/Res.1153 (XLVIII) of 1988 ~I and
CM/Res.1225 (L) of 1989, 101 adopted by the Council of Ministers of the
Organization of African Unity, concerning the dumping of nuclear and
industrial wastes in Africa,

~/ Ibid., sect. III.A and B.

R/ See A/43/398, annex I.

10/ See A/44/603, annex I.

I •..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 16

Welcoming resolution GC(XXXIII)/RES/509 on the dumping of nuclear wastes,
adopted on 29 September 1989 by the General Conference of the International
Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-third regular session, III

Welcoming also resolution GC(XXXIV)/RES/530 establishing a Code of
Practice on the International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste,
adopted on 21 September 1990 by the General Conference of the International
Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-fourth regular session, 12/

Considering its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it
requested the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, 13/ inter alia, to
consider effective methods of control against the use of radiological methods
of warfare,

Recalling resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991, 14/ adopted by the
Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, on the Bamako
Convention on the Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the
Control of Their Transboundary Movements within Africa,

Aware of the potential hazards underlying any use of radioactive wastes
that would constitute radiological warfare and its implications for regional
and international security, and in particular for the security of developing
countries,

Desirous of promoting the implementation of paragraph 76 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, QI

Aware also of the consideration in the Conference on Disarmament during
its 1992 session, of the question of dumping of radioactive wastes,

Gravely concerned at the recently reported efforts to dump harmful wastes
in Somalia,

Recalling its resolution 46/36 K of 6 December 1991, in which it
requested the Conference on Disarmament to include in its report to the
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session the progress recorded in the
ongoing negotiations on thi~ subject,

11/ See International Atomic Energy Agency, Resolutions and Other
Decisions of the General Conference, Thirty-third Regular Session,
25-29 September 1989.

~I Ibid., Thirty-fourth Regular Session, 11-21 September 1990.

131 The Committee on Jisarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

14/ See A/46/390, annex I.

/ ., .
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
I
I

/
~.

,

I

A/47/69l
English
Page 17

1. Takes note of the part of the report of the Conference on
Disarmament relating to a future convention on the prohibition of radiological
weapons; 15/

2. Expresses grave concern regarding any use of nuclear wastes that
would constitute radiological warfare and have grave implications for the
national security of all States:

3. Calls upon all States to take appropriate measures with a view to
preventing any dumping of nuclear or radioactive wastes that would infringe
upon the sovereignty of States;

4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to take into account, in the
ongoing negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of radiological
weapons, radioactive wastes as part of the scope of such a convention;

5. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify efforts
towards an early conclusion of such a convention and to include in its report
to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session the progress recorded in
the ongoing negotiations on this SUbject:

6. Takes note of resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991, adopted by the
Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, on the Bamako
Convention on the Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the
Control of Their Transboundary Movements within Africa;

7. Expresses the hope that the effective implementation of the
International Atomic Energy Agency Code of Practice on the International
Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste will enhance the protection of all
States from the dumping of radioactive wastes on their territories;

8. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue keeping
the subject under active review, including the desirability of concluding a
legally binding instrument in this field;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes".

E

Transparency in armaments

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/36 L of 9 December 1991 entitled
"Transparency in armaments",

15/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), para. 80.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/69l
English
Page 18

Continuing to take the view that an enhanced level of transparency in
armaments contributes greatly to confidence-building and security among States
and that the establishment of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms
constitutes an important step forward in the promotion of transparency in
military matters,

Welcoming the Secretary-General's report on the technical procedures and
adjustments to the annex to resolution 46/36 L necessary for the effective
operation of the Register and on the modalities for its early expansion, 161

Welcoming also the guidelines and recommendations for objective
information on military matters as adopted by consensus in the Disarmament
Commission, 17/

Welcoming also the report of the Conference on Disarmament on its agenda
item entitled "Transparency in armaments", 18/

1. Declares its determination to ensure the effective operation of the
Register of Conventional Arms as provided for in paragraphs 7, 9 and 10 of its
resolution 46/36 L~

2. Endorses the recommendations contained in the Secretary-General's
report on the technical procedures and adjustments to the annex to the
above-mentioned resolution necessary for the effective operation of the
Register;

3. Notes the suggestions offered in the report as a first step in the
consideration of modalities for early expansion of the Register;

4. Calls upon all Me:nber States to provide the requested data and
information to the Secretary-General by 30 April annually, beginning in 1993;

5. Encourages Member States to inform the Secretary-General of their
national arms import and export policies, legislation and administrative
procedures, both as regards authorization of arms transfers and prevention of
illicit transfers, in conformity with paragraph 18 of its resolution 46/36 L;

6. Reaffirms its req'.lest to the Secretary-General to prepare a report
on the continuing operation of the Register and its further development with
the assistance of a group of governmental experts convened in 1994 on the
basis of equitable geographical representation;

161 A/47/342 and Corr.l.

171 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42), annex I.

18/ Ibid., Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), sect. III.I.

/ ....
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Secretary-General to ensure that sufficient resources
the United Nations Secretariat to operate and maintain

A/47/69l
English
Page 19

I
I

7. Reguests the
are made available for
the Register;

\

8. Encourages the Conference on Disarmament to continue its work
undertaken in response to the requests contained in paragraphs 12 to 15 of
resolution 46/36 L;

9. Reguests the Secretary-General to report on progress made in
implementing the present resolution to the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Transparency in armaments".

F

Second Reyiew Conference of the Parties to the Convention on
the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of

Environmental Modification Technigues

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/72 of 10 December 1976, in which it referred
the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of
Environmental Modification Techniques to all States for their consideration,
signature and ratification and expressed the hope for the widest possible
adherence to the Convention,

Recalling also its resolution 46/36 A of 6 December 1991, in which it
noted that a majority of States parties to the Convention had expressed their
wish to convene the Second Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention
in September 1992,

Welcoming the fact that States parties to the Convention met at Geneva
from 14 to 18 September 1992 to review the operation of the Convention, with a
view to ensuring that its purposes and provisions were being realized,

Having considered the Final Document of the Second Review Conference,

Noting with satisfaction that the Review Conference confirmed that the
obligations assumed under article I of the Convention had been faithfully
observed by the States parties,

Noting also that the Review Conference recognized the continuing
importance of the Convention and its objectives, and the common interest of
mankind in maintaining its effectiveness in prohibiting the use of
environmental modification techniques as a means of war,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



1>../47/691
English
Page 20

Emphasizing that in its Final Declaration the Second Review Conference
reaffirmed its belief that universal adherence to the Convention would enhance
international peace and security,

Bearing in mind that the States parties to the Convention reaffirmed
their strong common interest in preventing the use of environmental
modification techniques for military or any other hostile purposes, their
strong support for the Convention, their continued dedication to its
principles and objectives and their commitment to implement effectively its
provisions,

1. Notes the assessment by the Second Review Conference of the Parties
to the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of
Environmental Modification Techniques that the Convention has been effective
in preventing military or any other hostile use of any environmental
modification techniques between States parties, and that its provisions need
to be kept under continuing review and examination in order to ensure their
global effectiveness;

2. Welcomes the reaffirmation of the Review Conference of support for
article II of the Convention and for the definition therein of the term
"environmental modification techniques", which States parties to the
Convention agree that, taken together with the Understandings relating to
articles I and II, covers military or any other hostile use of any
environmental modification techniques having widespread, long-lasting or
severe effects as the means of destruction, damage or injury to any State
party by another State party;

3. Notes with satisfaction the confirmation by the Review Conference
that the military or any other hostile use of herbicides as an environmental
modification technique in the meaning of article II is a method of warfare
prohibited by article I if such use of herbicides upsets the ecological
balance of a region, thus causing widespread, long-lasting or severe effects
as the means of destruction, damage or injury to any other State party;

4. Calls upon all St~tes to refrain from military or any other hostile
use of any environmental modification techniques:

5. Urges all Statesc:.hat have not already done so to exert their best
endeavours to become parties to the Convention as early as possible, and urges
successor States to take ap)ropriate action, so as ultimately to obtain
universality of adherence;

6. Welcomes the reaffirmation, under article V, of the undertaking of
all States parties to consult one another and to cooperate in solving any
problems which may arise in relation to the objectives of, or in the
application of the provisions of, the Convention;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to intensify efforts to assist States
parties in promoting the universality of the Convention, including through the
provision of appropriate advice on procedures.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
I

A/47/691
English
Page 21

G

Relationship between disarmament and development

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly 19/ concerning the relationship between
disarmament and development,

Recalling also the adoption on 11 September 1987 of the Final Document of
the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and
Development, Q/

p Bearing in mind the Final Document of the Tenth Conference of Heads of
I State or Gove:.:'nment of Non-,~ligned Countries held, at Jakarta from 1 to

6 September 1992,

Stressing the growing importance of the symbiotic relationship between
disarmament and development in current international relations,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General lQ/ and actions
undertaken in accordance with the Final Document of the International
Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development;

2. R.e.guests the Secr'Jtary-Genera1 to continue to take action, through
appropriate organs and within available resources, for the implementation of
the programme of action adopted at the International Conference; ~/

3. Also reguests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the
General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "'1elationship between disarmament and development".

H

Regional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 44/116 U and 44/117 B of 15 December 1989,
45/58 M of 4 December 1990 dnd 46/36 F of 6 December 1991,

19/ United Nations pU~lication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8.

£.Q./ A/47 /452.

11/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8, para. 35.

/ ....
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 22

Considering that the r~gional approach to disarmament is one of the most
important means by which States can contribute to the strengthening of
international security, arms limitation and disarmament,

Recognizing that the regional and global approaches complement each other
and can be pursued simu1 tant:ously in the promotion of regional and
international peace and security,

Convinced that disarmament can be carried out only in a climate of
confidence based on mutual respect and aimed at ensuring better relations
founded on justice, solidarity and cooperation,

Noting that the consumption of resources for potentially destructive
purposes is in stark contrast to the need for social and economic development
and that reduction in military expenditure following, inter alia, the
conclusion of regional disarmament agreements could entail benefits in both
the social and economic fields,

Considering that regiolal disarmament measures should be aimed at
establishing a military balance at the lowest level while not diminishing the
security of each State and at eliminating as a matter of priority the
capability for large-scale offensive action and surprise attacks,

Noting also that disarmament measures in one region should not lead to
increased arms transfers to other regions or extend the military imbalances
and/or tensions from one area to other areas,

Considering also that ~onfidence-bui1dingand transparency measures are
essential elements in the implementation of regional disarmament,

Persuaded that verification measures are important to ensure compliance
with regional agreements on arms control and disarmament,

1. Reaffirm§ that the regional approach to disarmament is one of the
essential elements in the global efforts to strengthen international peace and
security, arms limitation and disarmament;

2. Is convinced of the importance and effectiveness of regional
disarmament measures taken at the initiative of States of the region and with
the participation of all States concerned and taking into account the specific
characteristics of each region, in that they can contribute to the security
and stability of all States, in accordance with the principles of the Charter
of the United Nations and in compliance with international law and existing
treaties;

3. Affirms that comprehensive political and peaceful settlement of
regional conflicts and disputes can contribute to the reduction of tension and
the promotion of regional peace, security and stability as well as of arms
limitation and disarmament;

/ •• I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



III!'P..-IIIIII-------------------- ~_~

I
I 4.objective

process;

A/47/691
English
Page 23

Stresses the importance of confidence-building measures, including
information on military matters, in ensuring the success of this

5. Affirms alsQ that multifaceted cooperation among States in the
region, especially encompassing political, economic, social and cultural
fields, can be conducive to the strengthening of regional security and
stabili ty;

6. Notes with satisfaction the important progress made in various
regions of the world through the adoption of arms limitation, peace, security
and cooperation agreements, including those related to the prohibition of
weapons of mass destruction, and encourages States in the regions concerned to
continue implementing these agreements;

7. RecQgnizes the useful role played by the regional centres of the
United Nations;

8. EncQurages States of the same region to examine the possibility of
creating, on their own initiative, regional mechanisms and/or institutions for
the establishment of measures in the framework of an effort of regional
disarmament or for the prevention and the peaceful settlement of disputes and
conflicts with the assistance, if requested, of the United Nations;

9. Believes that regional initiatives should enjoy the support of all
States of the region concerned and the respect of those outside that region;

10. Invites and encourages all States to conclude, whenever possible,
agreements on arms limitation and confidence-building measures at the regional
level, including those conducive to avoiding the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction.

I

Study on defensive security concepts and policies

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resoluti~n 45/58 0 of 4 December 1990, in which it
requested the Secretary-General, with the assistance of qualified governmental
experts, to undertake a study on defensive security concepts and policies,

Noting with satisfaction positive developments in the world, reflecting a
trend towards reducing the significance of military power in ensuring national
policy aims,

Realizing that threats to international peace and security caused by
recurring acts of aggressicn underline the need for intensified efforts
towards elaborating a broad range of peaceful means for the prevention of
conflicts, including confidence-building measures,

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 24

Noting that defensive ~ecurity concepts as well as initiatives on
preventive diplomacy contribute to the strengthening of international peace
and security,

Considering the importance of the development of an international
dialogue on defensive security policies for the promotion of security and
stability in the world,

Having examined the report of the Secretary-General 111 containing the
study on defensive security concepts and policies,

1. Takes note of the study on defensive security concepts and policies;

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General and to the group
of experts who assisted in the preparation of the study;

3. Calls upon all Member States to familiarize themselves with the
study and its conclusions and recommendations;

4. Recalls that, in its resolution 45/58 0, it invited Member States to
initiate or intensify the dialogue on defensive security concepts and policies
at the bilateral level, particularly at the regional level and, where
appropriate, at the multilateral level, and notes that the study concluded
that:

"To this end, Member States could:

"(a) Express thei~ views on the concept and objective of 'defensive
security', as defined in the present study;

"(b) Examine theic current situation with respect to the political
and military aspects of 'defensive security';

"(c) Determine to what extent their international relations, their
security commitments and their regional situation might enable them to
consider taking measures, on the basis of reciprocity, to achieve a
situation of 'defensive security' at the bilateral, regional or
multilateral level. The States that share common security interests at a
regional or other level might consider undertaking consultations among
themselves;

"(d) Consider, individually or jointly, problems relating to the
resources needed to fulfil collective security commitments consistent
with the Charter of the United Nations;

"(e) Keep the Sec~etary-General informed of progress or initiatives
in the field of 'defensive security''';

ill A/47/394.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 25

5. Requests the Secr~tary-General to arrange for the reproduction of
the study as a United Nations pUblication and to give it the widest possible
distribution.

J

Confidence- and security-building measures and
,onventional disarmament in Europe

The General Assembly,

Determined to achieve progress in disarmament,

Stressing that confidence-building and disarmament measures have a
positive impact on international security,

Noting the work accomplished in 1992 by the Disarmament Commission on its
agenda items entitled "Objective information on military matters" and
"Regional approach to disarmament within the context of global security", ill

Recalling its resolutions 43/75 P of 7 December 1988, 44/116 I of
15 December 1989, 45/58 I of 4 December 1990 and 46/36 G of 6 December 1991,

Reaffirming the great importance of increasing security and stability in
Europe through the establishment of a stable, secure and verifiable balance of
conventional armed forces at lower levels, as well as through increased
openness and predictability of military activities,

Considering that, along with the new political situation in Europe, the
positive results of the negotiations on confidence- and security-building
measures, as well as those on conventional armaments and forces, both within
the framework of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, have
considerably increased confidence and security in Europe, thereby contributing
to international peace and security,

Welcoming the new measures agreed upon in these fields among the States
signatories of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and among the
States participating in the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe,

Expressing the hope that the implementation of these decisions will
contribute to the prevention or settlement of crises in Europe, including
those due to acts of aggression or the use of mil:tary force in some parts of
the continent,

1. Notes with satisfaction the progress achieved so far in the process
of disarmament and the strengthening of confidence and security in Europe;

231 See Official Reco~ds of the General Assembly. Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42), paras. 28 and 30.

I •.•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 26

2. Welcomes in particular:

(a) The decision of the States signatories of the Treaty on Conventional
Armed Forces in Europe to implement this Treaty, as well as the recent
Concluding Act of the Negotiations on Personnel Strength of Conventional Armed
Forces in Europe;

(b) The signature of the Treaty on Open Skies with the adoption of the
Declaration on the Treaty on Open Skies;

(c) The adoption, by the States participating in the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe, of a new significant set of confidence-
and security-building measures;

(d) The decision of the States participating in the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe, at the Helsinki summit meeting, 24/ to
establish a Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe Forum for
Security Cooperation with a mandate to start new negotiations on arms control,
disarmament, and confidence- and security-building; to enhance regular
consultation and to intensify cooperation among them on matters related to
security, and to further the process of reducing the risk of conflict;

3. Invites all State~ to consider the possibility of taking appropriate
measures with a view to redlcing the risk of confrontation and strengthening
security, taking due account of their specific regional conditions.

K

Regional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 45/58 P of 4 December 1990 and 46/36 I of
6 December 1991 on regional disarmament,

Believing that the efforts of the international community to move towards
the ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human
desire for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war
and the release of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful
pursuits,

Affirming the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in the conduct of
their international relations,

Noting that essential ~uidelines for progress towards general and
complete disarmament were adopted at the tenth special session of the General
Assembly, §./

24/ See A/47/361, annex.

/ .. ,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471691
English
Page 27

Welcoming the prospects of genuine progress in the field of disarmament
engendered in recent years as a result of negotiations between the two
super-Powers,

Taking note of the recent proposals for disarmament and nuclear
non-proliferation at regional and subregional levels,

Recognizing the importance of confidence-building measures for regional
and international peace and security,

Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament,
taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in
accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of
armaments, would enhance the security of smaller States and would thus
contribute to international peace and security by reducing the risk of
regional conflicts,

1. Stresses that sustained efforts are needed, within the framework of
the Conference on Disarmament and under the umbrella of the United Nations, to
make progress on the entire range of disarmament issues;

2. Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament
complement each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to
promote regional and international peace and security:

3. Calls upon States to conclude agreements, wherever possible, for
nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and confidence-building measures at
regional and subregional levels;

4. Welcomes the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear
non-proliferation and security undertaken by some countries at regional and
sUbregional levels;

5. Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting
confidence-building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to
ease regional tensions and to further disarmament and nuclear
non-proliferation measures at regional and subregional levels;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Regional disarmament".

L

Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and nuclear disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous relevant resolutions,

Recognizing the fundam,~ntal changes that have taken place with respect to
international security, which have permitted agreements on deep reductions in

/ ...

< .;

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



~/47/691

English
Page 28

the nuclear armaments of thr- States possessing the largest inventories of such
weapons,

Mindful that it is the responsibility and obligation of all States to
contribute to the process of the relaxation of international tension and to
the strengthening of international peace and security,

Stressing the importance of strengthening international peace and
security through disarmament,

Emphasizing that nuclear disarmament remains one of the principal tasks
of our times,

~tressing that it is the responsibility of all States to adopt and
implement measures towards the attainment of general and complete disarmament
under effective international control,

Appreciating a number of positive developments in the field of nuclear
disarmament, in particular the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces ~greement and
the Treaty on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms,

Noti~ that there are still significant nuclear arsenals and that the
primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament, with the objective of the
elimination of nuclear weapons, rests with the nuclear-weapon States, in
particular those which possess the largest nuclear arsenals,

Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to begin
the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and removing such
weapons from a deployed status,

Noting the new climate of relations between the United States of America
and States of the former Soviet Union, which permits them to intensify their
cooperative efforts to ensure the safety, security and environmentally sound
destruction of nuclear weapons,

Urging that further cooperation be undertaken to accelerate the
implementation of agreements and unilateral decisions relating to nuclear
disarmament and nuclear-arms reductions,

Welcoming the reductions made by other nuclear-weapon States in some of
their nuclear-weapon progr~nmes, and encouraging all nuclear-weapon States to
consider appropriate measures relating to nuclear disarmament,

Affirming that bilateral and multilateral negotiations on disarmament
should facilitate and complement each other,

1. Expresses its satiSfaction at the continued implementation of the
Treaty that was concluded between the United States of America and the former
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the elimin~tion of their

/ •• f

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



¥

I

I
I
I

I

A/47/691
English
Page 29

intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles, ~/ in particular at the
completion by the parties of the destruction of all their declared missiles
subject to elimination unde~ the Treaty;

2. Welcomes the signing of the Treaty on the Reduction and Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Arms in Moscow on 31 July 1991, and the accompanying
protocol that was signed in Lisbon on 23 May 1992, and urges the parties to
take the steps necessary to bring this Treaty 'and the accompanying protocol
into force at the earliest possible date:

3. Also welcomes the unilateral decisions announced by the President of
the United States of America and similar unilateral steps announced by the
former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and subsequently by the President
of the Russian Federation to reduce significantly the size and n~ture of
nuclear deployments worldwide, to eliminate certain nuclear weapons and to
enhance stability;

4. Further welcomes the Joint Understanding on Further Reductions in
Strategic Offensive Arms between the United States of America and the Russian
Federation that was announced in Washington on 17 June 1992, and urges that
the early conversion of this Joint Understanding into a formal treaty be
completed;

S. Encourages the United States of America~ the Russian Federation~
Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine to continue their cooperative efforts aimed at
eliminating nuclear weapons and strategic offensive arms on the basis of
existing agreements, and welcomes the contributions that other States are
making to such cooperation as well;

6. Further encourages and supports the United States of America and the
Russian Federation in their efforts to reduce their nuclear armaments and to
continue to give these efforts the highest priority in order to contribute to
the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons:

7. Invites the United States of America and the Russian Federation to
keep other States Members of the United Nations duly informed of progress in
their discussions and in the implementation of their strategic offensive arms
agreements and unilateral decisions.

* • •

39. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decisions:

251 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 12, 1987 (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.88.IX.2), appendix VII.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/691
English
Page 30

I

International arms transfers

The General Assembly, on the recommendation of the First Committee, and
recalling its resolution 46.'36 H of 6 December 1991, entitled "International
arms transfers", adopted without a vote at the forty-sixth session of the
General Assembly, and in particular its paragraph 10, decides:

(a) To welcome the information provided by Member States on the subject
contained in the report of the Secretary-General; lQ/

(b) To invite Member ~tates that have not yet done so to convey to the
Secretary-General their vie':1s on thi s matter;

(c) To include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth session the
item entitled "International arms transfers".

II

Conventional disarmament on a regional scale

The General Assembly, )n the recommendation of the First Committee,
having recalled its decisio,l 46/412 of 6 December 1991, decides:

(a) To welcome the roport of the Secretary-General on this question; ru

(b) To invite Member States that have not yet done so to convey to the
Secretary-General their views on this matter;

(c) To include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth session the
item entitled "Conventional disarmament on a regional scale".

1Q/ A/47/314 and Add.l.

11/ A/47/316 and Add.l and 2.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




