








































UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
LIMITED

A/47/L.18
13 November 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty~seventh session
Agenda item 18

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF
INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES

Barbados, Cuba, Grenada, Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federaked States of), Papua New Guinea, Sierra Leone,
Solomon Islands, Tunisia and Vanuatu: draft resolution

Dissemination of information on decolonization

The General Assembly,

Haying eXamined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the
dissemination of information on decolonization and publicity for the work of
the United Nations in the field of decolonization, 11

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations concerning the
dissemination of information on decolonization, in particular General Assembly
resolution 46/72 of 11 December 1991,

Reiterating the importance of publicity as an instrument for furthering
the aims of the Declaration and mindful of the role of world public opinion in
effectively assisting the peoples of the colonial Territories to achieve
self-determination and independence,

11 ~fficialRecords of the General Assembly, Forty-seyenthSession,
Supplement No. 23 (A/47/2~), chap. II!.

92-69992 4596Z (E) 131192 151192 I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471L.18
English
Page 2

Noting that while censorship laws have been ~epealed. existing
legislation and other measures still curtail the freedom of the press in South
Africa.

Aware of the importance of non-governmental organizations in the
dissemination of information on deco1onization.

1. A~~roves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to th~ Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the
dissemination of information on decolonization and publicity for the work of
the United Nations in the field of decolonization: 11

2. Considers it im~ortant for the United Nations to continue to play an
active role in the process of deco1onization and to intensify its efforts to
ensure the widest possible dissemination of information on decolonization.
with a view to further mobilizing international public opinion in support of
complete decolonization by the year 2000;

3. Requests the Secretary-General. taking into account the suggestions
of the Special Committee. to continue to take concrete measures through all
the media at his disposal. including publications. radio and television. to
give widespread and continuous publicity to the work of the United Nations in
the field of decolonization and. inter alia:

(a) To continue. in consultation with the Special Committee. to collect,
prepare and disseminate basic material. studies and articles relating to the
problems of decolonization and. in particular. to continue to publish the
periodical Objective: Justice and other publications. special articles and
studies. including the Decolonization series, and to increase the information
on all the Territories under consideration by the Special Committee, selecting
appropriate material for wider dissemination by reprints in various languages;

(b) To seek the full cooperation of the administering Powers in the
discharge of the tasks referred to above;

(c) To intensify the decolonization-oriented activities of all ~nited
Nations information centres;

(d) To maintain a working relationship with the Organization of African
Unity and appropriate regional and intergovernmental organizations,
particularly in the Pacific and Caribbean regions, by holding periodic
consultations and exchanging information;

(e) To solicit, in consultation with United Nations information centres,
assistance in the dissemination of information on decolonization from
non-governmental organizations;

(f) To continue to produce comprehensive press releases for all meetings
of the Special Committee and its subsidiary bodies;

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



outh

.he
Itinq

of

.1 an
to

of

lOOS

L1
:0
li in

Lect,
::be

itd
~ion

::ticg
"ge5;

tres.

tings

I .. If..

.....

A/47/L.lB
English
Page 3

(g) To ensure that the necessary facilities and services to that end are
made available;

(h) To report to the Special Committee on measures taken in the
implementation of the present resolution;

4. Requests all States, in particular the administering Powers, as well
as the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system and non-governmental organizations with a special interest in
decolonization, to undertake or intensify, in cooperation with the
Secretary-General and within their respective spheres of competence, the
large-scale dissemination of information referred to in paragraph 2 above;

5. Requests the Special Committee to follow the implementation of the
present resolution and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




