








































UNITED'
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A . lRi~"

A/471703
27 November 1992

ORIGIN~L: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 93

SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT

QUESTIONS RELATING TO THE WORLD SOCIAL SITUATION AND TO
YOUTH, ~GEING, DISABLED PERSONS AND THE FAMILY

CRIME PREVENTION AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE

Report of the Third Committee (Part 1)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Vitavas SRIVIHOK (Thailand)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-seventh session the item entitled:

"Social development:

"(a) Questions relating to the world social situation and to youth,
ageing, disabled persons and the family:

"(b) Crime prevention and criminal justice"

and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item at its 11th to 18th, 22nd, 23rd, 25th,
30th and 41st meetings, from 19 to 23 October, on 26, 29 and 30 October and on

* The report of the Committee on this item will be issued in two parts
(see also ~/47/703/Add.l).

92-75798 0873P (E) 041292 / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/703
English
Page 2

2, 5 and 16 November 1992. An account of the discussion is contained in the
relevant summary records (A/C.3/47/SR.11-18, 22, 23, 25, 30 and 41).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documentation:

(a) Letter dated 29 January 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Philippines to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/8D-S/23502);

(b) Letter dated 6 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/87);

(c) Letter dated 6 February 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Senegal to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General and transmitting the documents of the Sixth Islamic Summit
Conference, held at Dakar from 9 to 11 December 1991 (A/47/88-S/23563);

(d) Letter dated 26 May 1992 from the representatives of Argentina,
Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico,
Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/232-S/24025 and Corr.l);

(e) Letter dated 2 July 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Senegal to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/312-S/24238);

(f) Letter dated 21 July 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Trinidad and Tobago to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/47/344);

(g) Letter dated 30 July 1992 from the Permanent Representative of Spain
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/356-S/24367);

(h) Letter dated 17 August 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Solomon Islands to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/391);

Item 93 (a):

(i) Note by the Secretary-General on the continuation of the Voluntary
Fund for the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons (A/47/214-E/1992/50);

(j) Report of the Secretary-General on the status and role of
cooperatives in the light of new economic and social trends
(A/47/2l6-E/1992/43);

(k) Report of the Secretary-General on global targets on ageing for the
year 2001: a practical strategy (A/47/339);

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471703
English
Page 3

(1) Report of the Secretary-General on policies and programmes involving
youth (A/47/349);

(m) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing (A/47/369);

(n) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the World
Programme of Action concerning Disabled Persons and the United Nations Decade
of Disabled Persons (A/47/415 and Corr.l);

(0) Letter dated 15 October 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Denmark to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.3/47/4);

Item 93 Cb):

(p) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations African
Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders (A/47/379
and Corr.l);

(q) Report of the Secretary-General on the strengthening of
international cooperation in combating organized crime (A/47/381);

(r) Report of the Secretary-General on measures taken to implement the
Statement of Principles and Programme of Action of the United Nations crime
prevention and criminal justice programme (A/47/399 and Corr.l).

4. At the 11th meeting, on 19 October, the Director-General of the United
Nations Office at Vienna and Head of the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs and the Director of the Division of Social Development of
the United Nations Office at Vienna made introductory statements (see
AlC.3/47/SR.ll) •

5. At the 12th meeting, on 20 October, the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General made a statement (see A/C.3/47/SR.12).

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.ll

6. At the 22nd meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Egypt, on
behalf of Austria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt 4 the Netherlands and Romania,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/47/L.11) entitled "Policies and
programmes involving youth". Subsequently, Belarus. Burkina Faso. Cape Verde,
Chad, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Malawi, Malta. Morocco, the Russian
Federation. Toga and the United Republic of Tanzania joined in sponsoring the
draft resolution.

7. At its 25th meeting, on 2 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.3/47/L.ll (see para. 30, draft resolution I).

/ ...

.lBRAR

1\\\\\\\\

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A./471703
English
Page 4

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.13

8. At the 22nd meeting, on 29 October, the representative of the Dominican
Republic, on behalf of Argentina. Austria. the Bahamas, Cameroon. Chile, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Dominica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador. El Salvador.
Guatemala. Guinea, Guinea-Bissau. Guyana. Jamaica, Mali. Malta, Mongolia,
Morocco, Nicaragua, Panama. Paraguay, Senegal, Suriname, and Trinidad and
Tobago, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/47/L.13) entitled "Implementation
of the International Plan of Action on Ageing: integration of older persons
in development". Subsequently, Angola, Honduras, Sudan and Toga joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

9. At its 25th meeting, on 2 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.3/47/L.13 (see para. 30, draft resolution II).

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.14

10. At the 22nd meeting, on 29 October, the representative of the Russian
Federation, on behalf of Austria, the Bahamas, Belarus, Cyprus, France.
Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy. Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, the
Netherlands. Norway. Poland, the Russian Federation. Tajikistan, Trinidad and
Tobago, Turkey and Turkmenistan, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/47/L.14)
enti tled "International cooperation in combating organized crime". The
representative also stated that Colombia was no longer a sponsor of the draft
resolution. Subsequently, Albania, Latvia and Lithuania joined in sponsoring
the draft reSOlution.

11. At the 25th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of the Russian
Federation orally revised the draft resolution by deleting, in the tenth
preambular paragraph, the words "of the United Nations" after the words
"Professional Advisory Cquncil". The representative also replaced the word
"monitoring" by the word "review" in operative paragraph 5.

12. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/47/L.14, as orally revised (see para. 30, draft resolution Ill).

13. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of
America made a statement (see A/C.3/47/SR.25).

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.15

14. At the 22ndmeeting, on 29 October, the representative of the
Philippines, on behalf of Australia, Austria, Belgium. Cameroon. Canada,
China. Costa Rica, Denmark. the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland, France.
Greece. Iceland, Indonesia. Ireland, Italy. Japan, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Mali. Malta, Mongolia, Morocco. Norway, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, the
Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian FederatioIl, Spain. Sweden. Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A./471703
Enqlish
Paqe 5

Ireland and zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/47/L.15) entitled
"Towards full integration of persons with disabilities into society: a
continuing world programme of action". Subsequently, Angola, Azerbaijan, the
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belarus, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire. Cyprus, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissay, Kenya, Namibia, Pakistan, Poland, Ukraine and Zambia joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

15. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of the
Philippines made the following oral revisions:

(a) In the sixth preambular paragraph, the words "during the Decade"
were deleted at the end of the paragraph;

(b) In operative paragraph 3 (b), the words "and providinq preventive
and rehabilitative measures and an equalization of opportunities" w~re added
after the words "socio-economic issues";

(c) In operative paragraph 8 (e), the words "revision of the" were added
before the word "translation";

(d) In operative paragraph 8 (h). the words "in close collaboration with
the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs and the relevant
United Nations organizations" were added after the words "Statistical Office";

(e)
response
decision
added at

In operative paragraph 11, the words "Decides to continue, in
to General Assembly resolution 46/96 and Economic and Social Council
1992/276, the United Nations Voluntary Fund on Disability and" were
the beginning of the paragraph;

(f) Also in operative paragraph 11, the words"Voluntary Fund on
Disability" were replaced by the word "Fund".

16. At the 25th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of China corrected
the text of operative paragx-aph 4 to read as follows: "Welcomes the
proclamation by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific of
the Asian and Pacific Decade of Disabled Persons, 1993-2002".

17. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/47/L.15, as orally revised (see para. 30, draft resolution IV).

E. Draft resolubion A/C.3/47/L.16

18. At the 22nd meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Mauritania, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of African States, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/47/L.16)
entitled "United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the
Treatment of Offenders".

19. At its 41st meeting, oa 16 November, the Committee had before it the
programme budget implicatio~s of the draft resolution (A/C.3/47/L.26).

I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471703
English
Page 6

20. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.16
by a recorded vote of 97 to 1, with 41 abstentions (see para. 30, draft
resolution V). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalarn, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Rwanda,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of
Tanzania, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstentions: Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

21. The representative of Uganda made a statement after the vote (see
A/C.3/47/SR.4l) •

22. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic
stated that he had voted in favour but his vote had not been recorded. The
representatives of Trinidad and Tobago and Qatar said that, had they been
present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution. The
representative of Japan made a statement (see A/C.3/47/SR.41).

/

23. At the 42nd meeting, on 17 November, the rept'esentative of the United
Arab Emirates stated that had his delegation been present when the draft
resolution was adopted, he would have voted in favour.

I ..•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471703
English
Page 7

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.l7

24. At the 22nd meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Mongolia, on
behalf of Belarus. Ben1n, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
the Dominican Republic, Ecuador. Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras,
Indonesia, Kenya, the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Lebanon, Lesotho,
Malawi, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Papua New Guinea, the Philippines. Poland, the Russian Federation, Rwanda,
~ the United States of America and Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution
(A/C.3/47/L.17) entitled "The role of cooperatives in the light of new
economic and social trends". Subsequently, the United Republic of Tanzania
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

25. At its 25th meeting, on 2 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.3/47/L.17 (see para. 30, draft resolution VI).

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.19

26. At the 23rd meeting, on 30 October, the representative of Italy, on
behalf of Austria, the Bahamas, Be1arus, Costa Rica, Croatia, France,
Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Italy, Morocco, the Netherlands. Panama, the
Russian Federation, Trinidad and Tobago and Uruguay, introduced a draft
resolution (A/C.3/47/L.19), entitled "Crime prevention and criminal justice".
SUbsequently, Australia, Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, Mexico, Mongolia,
Nicaragua, Peru, Ukraine and Venezuela, joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

21. At the 30th meeting, on 5 November, the Secretary of the Committee read
out the following statement on the draft resolution:

"The provisions of this draft resolution will be implemented within
existing resources approved by the General Assembly at its forty-sixth
session. As already indicated to the Economic and Social Council at its
SUbstantive session of 1992, in the statement of the Secretary-General on
programme budget implications of resolutions recommended by the
Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice for adoption by the
Economic and Social Council (E/1992/30/Add.l), the question of resources
and organizational structure of the Branch would be addressed in the
context of the revised estimates for section 21 of the programme budget
for 1992-1993. Those revised estimates, which will be submitted to the
Fifth Committee of the General Assembly at its current session, do not
contain proposals for any additional appropriation".

28. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy orally revised the draft
resolution by deleting operative paragraph 5, which read:

"5. Reaffirms that equal and just progress is founded on the
development of human and material resources supported by the rule of law
and respect for human rights, in accordance with standards adopted by the
United Nations".

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



u

A/47/703
English
Page 8

29. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/47/L.19, as orally revised (see para. 30, draft resolution VII).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

30. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Policies and programmes involving youth

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/135 of 16 December 1977 and 36/17 of
9 November 1981, by which it adopted guidelines for the improvement of the
channels of communication between the United Nations and youth and youth
organizations, and its other relevant resolutions,

Recalling also its resolution 40/14 entitled "International Youth Year:
Participation, Development, Peace", adopted on 18 November 1985 by the GeneraJ
Assembly acting as the United Nations World Conference for the International
Youth Year, by which the guidelines for further planning and suitable
follow-up in the field of youth 1/ were endorsed, and its other relevant
resolutions,

Recalling further its resolution 45/103 of 14 December 1990, in which it
decided to devote a plenary meeting at its fiftieth session to youth questionf

Noting that the year 1995 will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the
Charter of the United Nations and the tenth anniversary of the International
Youth Year,

Recognizing that, in implementing the guidelines, priority should be
given to the enjoyment by youth of human rights, including the right to
education and to work, and to the resolution of other urgent problems faced b~
young people in the present-day world, such as hunger, drug abuse, diseases,
including acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and the deterioration of the
environment,

Recalling the Convention on the Rights of the Child, AI which entered
into force on 2 September 1990, the World Declaration on the Survival,

11 See A/40/256, annex.

11 Resolution 44/25, annex.

/'.4

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



· A/471703
English
Page 9

Protection and Development of Children and the Plan of Action for Implementing
the World Declaration on the Survival, Protection and Development of Children
in the 1990s, adopted by the World Summit for Children on 30 September 1990, ~I

Noting the Youth Forum of the United Nations System, held at Vienna from
27 to 29 May 1992,

Taking note of the fifth anniversary of the youth employment programme
HOPE '87, and welcoming with appreciation its increasing activities and close
collaboration with the United Nations, in particular the Centre for Social
Development and Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat and the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, and with the Council of
Europe in bringing about employment opportunities for young people, especially
in developing countries,

Noting also the proposals of the ad hoc open-ended working group of the
Commission for Social Development to elaborate standard rules on the
equalization of opportunities for disabled persons, established in accordance
with Economic and Social Council resolution 1990/26 of 24 May 1990, with
regard to achieving the equitability of young persons with disabilities, made
at its second session, held at Vienna in May 1992,

1. Calls ypon all States, all United Nations bodies, in particular the
Economic and Social Council through the Commission for Social Development, the
specialized agencies and tha intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations concerned, in particular youth organizations, to continue to
exert all possible efforts for the implementation of the guidelines for
further planning and suitable follow-up in the field of youth;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to promote and monitor,
by using the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs of the
Secretariat as a focal point, the inclusion of youth-related projects and
activities in the programmes of United Nations bodies and specialized
agencies, specifically on such themes as communication, health, malnutrition,
poverty, housing, culture, youth employment, illiteracy, juvenile delinquency,
education, leisure-time activities, drug abuse and the environment;

3. Calls upon Member States to enable young people to obtain a modern
education on such SUbjects as environmental and human rights issues;

4. Calls once again upon the United Nations Postal Administration to
produce commemorative United Nations stamps in 1995 to mark the tenth
anniversary of the International Youth Year;

~/ A/45/625, annex.

/ f ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a

A/47/703
English
Page 10

5. Emphasizes the need for a review and appraisal of the progress
achieved and the obstacles encountered in the implementation of the guidelines
and, on the basis of the evaluation, for preparation of a world youth
programme of action to the year 2000 and beyond, with a target orientation and
within a specific time-frame;

6. Invites all Member States to consider preparing a national plan of
action or a national calendar of events, for 1993-1995, based on an analytical
national evaluation of the situation and needs of youth;

7. Calls once again upon Member States, United Nations bodies, the
specialized agencies and other governmental and intergovernmental
organizations to implement fully the guidelines for the improvement of the
channels of communication between the United Nations and youth and youth
organizations, adopted by the General Assembly in its resolutions 32/135 and
36/17;

8. Inyites the regional commissions, as appropriate, together with
regional youth and youth-serving organizations, to undertake a,comprehensive
review of the progress achieved and the obstacles encountered in the regions
since 1985 and to propose draft regional youth programmes of action to the
year 2000 and beyond;

9. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue the preparation of a
draft world youth programme of action to the year 2000 and beyond in
accordance with proposals to be submitted by Member States, the United Nations
and non-governmental youth organizations and in consultation with the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system and
the relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, and to
report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

10. Calls upon youth mechanisms that have been set up by youth and youth
organizations at the national, regional and international levels to continue
to act as channels of communication between the United Nations system and
youth and youth organizations and, especially, to contribute to the
preparations for the tenth anniversary of the International Youth Year and to
the formulation of a world youth programme of action to the year 2000 and
beyond;

11. Again invites Governments to include, whenever possible, youth
representatives in their national delegations to the General Assembly and
other relevant United Nations meetings, thus enhancing and strengthening the
channels of communication through the discussion of youth-related issues, with
a view to finding solutions to the problems confronting youth in the
contemporary world;

12. Invites Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to contribute to the United Nations Youth Fund, in order to
enable it to continue its mandated role and to contribute effectively to the
needs of developing countries in the field of youth;

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/703
English
Page 11

13. Decides to consider the question of policies and programmes
involving youth under the item entitled "Social development" at its
forty-ninth session on the basis of a report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageing:
integration of older persons in development

The General Assembly,

Mindful of the challenges the ageing of populations poses to all
countries,

Noting with appreciation the activities of the global information
campaign for the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan
of Action on Ageing and the many observances of the International Day for the
Elderly,

Noting with satisfaction the active participation of Member States,
specialized agencies, Unite~l Nations bodies, non-governmental organizations,
older persons and experts in developing a practical strategy on ageing in the
form of a set of targets on ageing for the year 2001,

Welcoming the convening of the Fifteenth World Congress of Gerontology at
Budapest, from 4 to 9 July 1993,

Welcoming with appreci~ the participation of older persons in
development programmes and projects,

~ of the plight of older persons, particularly those in developing
countries and those in difficult circumstances,

Aware also of the heavy obligations on families that provide care to
older persons and the need for comprehensive community care programmes,

Aware further of the increasing concern of development agencies for
securing the human and financial resources needed for adjusting policies and
programmes to population ageing,

1. Takes note with appreci~tion of the reports of the Secretary-General
on the global targets on ageing for the year 2001 i/ and the implementation of
the International Plan of Action on Ageing; 2/

i/ A/47/339.

~/ A/471369.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/703
English
Page 12

2. AdQpts the global targets Qn ageing for the year 2001 Q/ as a
practical strategy Qn ageing, and urges Member States to suppQrt that strategy
and tQ cQnsult the guide fQr setting national targets Qn ageing; 1/

3. Invites the Centre fQr Social DevelQpment and Humanitarian Affairs
Qf the Secretariat, as the lead and cOQrdinating agency fQr the glQbal
targets, to update the target strategies periQdically Qn the basis Qf
achievements and new QppQrtunities and tQ refine indicators fQr measuring
prQgress in cQoperatiQn with the International Institute Qn Ageing in Malta
and others;

4. Invites the regional cQmmissiQns tQ assist Member States in their
regiQns in setting regional targets on ageing for the year 2001, bearing in
mind the glQbal targets and the diverse natiQnal needs in their regions;

5. Invites the specialized agencies and United NatiQns bQdies tQ
examine technical, QrganizatiQnal and financial means Qf strengthening the
inter-agency cQnsultative process, including the biennial meetings Qn ageing,
and tQ suggest measures fQr the cQnsideration of the Administrative Committee
on COQrdinatiQn;

6. Calls ypQn the Secretary-General tQ give all pQssible support, in
the fQrm Qf both regular and extrabudgetary reSQurces, to the Ageing Unit of
the Centre fQr Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs, tQ enable it to
fulfil its mandate as lead agency fQr the action programme on ageing;

7. Welcomes the suppQrt Qf the United Nations PQpulatiQn Fund, the
GQvernment Qf Sweden and two nQn-gQvernmental organizations fQr the research
of the Centre fQr SQcial DevelQpment and Humanitarian Affairs Qn the
develQpmental implicatiQns of demographic change: glQbal populatiQn ageing,
and invites continuing support for this project as the basis Qf a global
research component at the Centre;

8. Invites Member States to second national experts and juniQr
prQfessiQnal officers tQ the Ageing Unit of the Centre tQ suppQrt selected
target strategies;

9. Requests the CQmmission fQr SQcial Development tQ CQnvene an ad hQC
infQrmal working grQUp at its thirty-third sessiQn fQr the third review and
appraisal of the International Plan of ActiQn on Ageing and fQr prQposing
measures in support Qf setting natiQnal targets Qn ageing in the decade ahead;

10. Invites interested Member States and QrganizatiQns tQ support the
Centre in establishing and maintaining a data bank Qn ageing pQlicies and

Q/ Ibid., sect. Ill.

1/ Ibid., sect. IV.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A.1471703
English
Page 13

programmes so that the data gathered in the quadrennial reviews can be
systematized and made available to Member States and others on a continuing
basis;

11. Acknowledges with appreciation the major contribution of the
Department of Public Information of the Secretariat to the global information
campaign, and requests it to continue its work on ageing during the coming
decade;

12. Also acknowledges with appreciation the initiative, expertise and
dedication of the non-governmental community, and invites the Centre to
explore the feasibility of establishing a non-governmental advisory committee,
funded by voluntary contributions, to assist the Secretariat in promoting the
United Nations Principles for Older Persons ~/ and in implementing the Plan of
Action and the target strategies;

13. Commends the International Institute on Ageing on its training
programme and related activities, and invites national, regional and
international organizations to cooperate closely with the Institute;

14. Urges the United Nations, Member States and non-governmental
organizations to support the African Society of Gerontology in developing and
implementing a regional programme of activities on ageing;

15. Invites interested Member States and others to explore the
feasibility of establishing a training institute on ageing for Latin America
and the Caribbean;

16. Also invites Member States generously to support the United Nations
Trust Fund for Ageing in order to enable it to continue serving as an
operational tool of the Uni:ed Nations programme on ageing;

17. Inyit~s Member States, corporations and foundations to support the
Banyan Association Fund: A World Fund for Ageing;

18. Urges the United Nations Development Programme and other development
agencies to include a component on ageing in their regular programmes;

19. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution under
the item entitled "Social development".

~/ Resolution 46/91, annex.

I. t •

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



a

A/471703
English
Page 14

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

International cooperation in combating Qrganized crime

The General Assembly,

Alarmed by the rapid growth and geographical extensiQn of organized crime
in its various forms, both nationally and internationally, undermining the
development process, impairing the quality of life and threatening human
rights and fundamental freedQms,

Acknowledging the need fQr global efforts commensurate with the magnitude
Qf national and transnational crime,

Recalling the responsibility assumed by the United Nations in the field
of crime prevention and criminal justice,

Recalling also that the Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention
of Crime and the Treatment Qf Offenders, held at Havana from 27 August to
7 September 1990, adQpted resolutions entitled "Organized crime" and
"Prevention and control of organized crime", .2/

Recalling further its resolutions 44/71 and 44/72 of 8 December 1989,
45/121 and 45/123 of 14 December 1990, 46/152 of 18 December 1991 and S-17/2
of 23 February 1990 and ECQnomic and Social Council resolutions 1989/70 of
24 May 1989 and 1992/23 of 30 July 1992,

Bearing in mind that the Eighth Congress explored the possibilities and
ways of strengthening further international cQoperation in combating organized
crime and adopted the Guidelines for the prevention and control of organized
crime, IQI and model treaties relating to it, 111

Welcoming with appreciatiQn the results achieved at the Ministerial
Meeting on the Creation of an Effective United Nations Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice Programme, held at Versailles, France, from 21 to
23 November 1991, 121

~/ See Eighth United NatiQns Congress Qn the Prevention of Crime and
the Treatment of Offenders, Havana, 27 'August-7 September 1990: repQrt
prepared by the Secretariat (United Nations pUblication, Sales No. E.9l.IV.2),
chap. I, sect. C, resolutions 15 and 24.

IQ/ Ibid., Congress resolution 24, annex.

11/ See resolutions 45/116, 45/117 and 45/118.

12/ See A/46/703 and Corr.l.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



>'1471703
English
Page 15

AcknQwledging with appreciatiQn the wQrk dQne by the CQmmissiQn Qn Crime
PreventiQn and Criminal Justice during its first session, held at Vienna from
21 to 30 April 1992, 111

Noting that the Ad HQC Expert GrQup Meeting on Strategies tQ Deal with
TransnatiQnal Crime, held at Smolenice, Czechoslovakia, from 27 to
31 May 1991, and the International Seminar on Organized Crime, held at Suzda1,
Russian FederatiQn, from 21 tQ 25 October 1991, formulated impQrtant
recommendations in this area, 141

Noting also that the meeting cQnvened by the Resource Committee on
Transnational Crime of the InternatiQnal Scientific and Professional AdviSQry
Council for the crime prevention and criminal justice programme, held at
Courmayeur, Italy, from 23 to 28 March 1992, resulted in a proposed outline
for an international conference on mQney laundering and cQntrQl, 121

Recalling Economic and Social CQuncil resQlutiQn 1992/24 of 30 July 1992,
in which the CQunci1 decided that the tQpic "ActiQn against national and
transnatiQnal economic, Qrganized and environmental crime: national
experiences and internatiQna1 cQoperation" could be included in the
provisional agenda of the Ninth United Nations Congress on the PreventiQn Qf
Crime and the Treatment of Offenders,

Reaffirming that priority must be given to the struggle against all
activities of organized crime, including the illicit arms trade and traffic in
narcQtic drugs, cultural property theft, money laundering, the infiltration Qf
legitimate business and the corruptiQn of public Qfficials,

Emphasizing the role of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal
justice programme in that rll!spect,

1. ~ Member States tQ give favourable cQnsideration to the
implementatiQn of the Guidelines for the prevention and control of organized
crime IQI at bQth national and internatiQnal levels;

2. Invites Member St3tes, in cQoperation with internatiQnal
governmental and non-governnental organizations, to assist in increasing
awareness to ensure a brQad base of public participation and suppQrt for
action against organized crime;

III See Official Records Qf the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 10 (E/1992/30).

141 Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/23, annexes I and 1I.

151 E/CN.15/19921NGO;4, annex.

/ ., .

, ,
! r

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



•

A./471103
English
Page 16

3. Also invites Member States to make available to the
Secretary-General, on request, the provisions of their legislation relating to
money laundering, the tracing, seizing and forfeiture of the proceeds of crime
and the monitoring of large-scale cash transactions and other measures so that
they may be available to Member States desiring to enact or further develop
legislation in those fields:

4. Reguests the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to
continue to consider ways of strengthening international cooperation in
combating organized crime, taking due account of the opinions of Governments,
international organizations and non-governmental organizations expressed at
international forums and to submit its views, through the Economic and Social
Council, to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session:

5. Also reguests the Commission to organize the ongoing review and
analysis of the incidence of transnational organized criminal activity and the
dissemination of that information:

6. Calls upon Member States, international organizations and interested
non-governmental organizations to cooperate closely with the United Nations in
organizing practice-oriented workshops, research projects and training
programmes to deal with specific aspects of organized criminal activities.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Towards full integration of persons with disabilities
into society: a continuing world programme of action

The General Assembly,

Recalling all its relevant resolutions, including resolutions 37/52 and
37/53 of 3 December 1982 and 46/96 of 16 December 1991, Economic and Social
Council decision 1992/276 of 30 July 1992, and Commission on Human Rights
resolution 1992/48 of 3 March 1992, ~/

Noting the progress achieved during the United Nations Decade of Disabled
Persons, including increased awareness and expanded knowledge of disability
issues, the increased role played by persons with disabilities and by
organizations, and the development of disability legislation,

Aware of the major obstacles to the implementation of the World Programme
of Action concerning Disabled Persons, 17/ foremost among these being an
inadequate allocation of resources,

16/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. 11, sect. A.

17/ A/37/351/Add.l and Corr.l, annex, sect. VIII, recommendation 1 (IV).

I •..

'I

!
j

j
j
I
I

I
I
1
'I
I
;1

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471703
English
Page 17

Mindful of the need for persons with disabilities to be afforded the
means to take their place as full-fledged citizens in all fields of society,

Deeply concerned by the increasing numbers of persons with disabilities
as a consequence of poverty and disease, wars and civil strife and demographic
and environmental factors, including natural disasters and catastrophic
accidents,

Acknowledging with appreciation the work of the Centre for Social
Development and Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat, as the focal point
for disability issues within the United Nations system,

Recognizing that the ongoing process of elaborating standard rules on the
equalization of opportunities for disabled persons represents one of the
important initiatives of the Decade,

Noting the proposed action towards a long-term strategy to implement the
World Programme of Action to the year 2000 and beyond, resulting from the
meeting of experts held at Vancouver, Canada, in June 1992,

Welcoming the initiative of the Government of Canada in convening the
International Conference of Ministers Responsible for Disability Issues, held
at Montreal, Canada, on 8 and 9 October 1992,

Haying carefully considered the various reports and statements made
during its plenary meetings, held on 12 and 13 October 1992 to mark the
conclusion of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons, ~I

Welcoming Economic and Social Council decision 1992/276, in which the
Council recommended the continuation of the Voluntary Fund for the United
Nations Decade of Disabled Persons under its new name, the United Nations
Voluntary Fund on Disability, and under its new terms of reference, ~/

Having taken note with appreciation of the report of the
Secretary-General concerning the second round of monitoring of the
implementation of the World Programme of Action concerning Disabled Persons
and the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons, 201

1. Reaffirms the continuing validity and value of the World Programme
of Action concerning Disabled Persons, which provides a firm and innovative
framework for disability-related issues;

181 See A/47/PV.33-36.

19/ See A/47/2l4-E/1992/50.

20/ A/47/415 and Corr.1.

J • ••

I..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



•
A/471703
English
Page 18

2. Reiterates the responsibility of Governments for removing or
facilitating the removal of barriers and obstacles to the full integration of
persons with disabilities into society, and supports their efforts in
developing national policies to reach specific objectives;

3. ~ Governments to show their commitment to improving the
situation of persons with disabilities, inter alia, by:

(a) Establishing an appropriate governmental mechanism to be responsible
for policy relating to persons with disabilities and overall coordination;

(b) Addressing disability issues within integrated social development
policies linked to other socio-economic issues and providing preventive and
rehabilitative measures and an equalization of opportunities, with the
ultimate objective of facilitating the full integration of persons with
disabilities into society;

(c) Where appropriate, creating new or strengthening existing high-level
national coordinating committees or other similar bodies in accordance with
the Beijing Guidelines for the Establishment and Development of National
Coordinating Committees on Disability or Similar Bodies; 211

(d) Supporting the development of organizations of persons with
disabilities and using the body of knowledge accumulated by persons with
disabilities or their representatives in decision-making processes;

(e) Integrating, where possible, disability components into technical
assistance and technical cooperation programmes;

4. Welcomes the proclamation by the Economic and Social Commission for
Asia and the Pacific of the Asian and Pacific Decade of Disabled Persons,
1993-2002; ill

5. Also welcomes the proposal for and continuing discussion on the
establishment of a Ministers' Working Group as a result of the Conference of
Ministers held at Montreal;

6. Further welcomes the initiative of the United States of America to
act as host, in cooperation with the United Nations, to an international
conference on disability in the autumn of 1993;

7. ~ the optimum use of existing United Nations mechanisms and
bodies, inclUding regional commissions, specialized agencies, other

211 A/C.3/46/4, annex I.

221 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 11 (E/1992/31), chap. IV, resolution 48/3.

/ ...

I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Al471703
English
Page 19

intergovernmental bodies and non-governmental organizations, especially
organizations of persons with disabilities, in the planning, coordination,
implementation and monitoring of the United Nations programme on disability,
in line with the restructuring and streamlining efforts of the United Nations
system and in order to make the most cost-effective use of resources;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to turn the focus of the United
Nations programme on disability from awareness raising to action, to give
higher priority and visibility to disability issues within the work programme
of the United Nations system, to provide it, through the use of existing
resources, with an adequate allocation of funding to strengthen the leadership
role of the United Nations as a catalyst for change, as a standard-setting
organization, as a forum for the exchange of views and as a promoter of
technical cooperation activities, by:

(a) Integrating disability issues into the policies, programmes and
projects of the specialized agencies on a broader scale and with a higher
priority;

(b) Concentrating action and assistance in countries and regions that
are most needy and paying special attention to especially vulnerable groups;

(c) Considering the creation of a panel of eminent persons, including
persons with disabilities, to advise the Secretary-General on disability
matters;

(d) Initiating model pilot projects, in partnership with all interested
parties, to assist Member States in formulating comprehensive and coherent
disability policies and feasible action plans, taking into account diverse
socio-cultural factors and varying levels of economic development;

(e) Finalizing the revision of the translation into the official
languages of the United Nations of the World Programme of Action, in
particul ar the terms "impairment", "di sabi1 i ty", "handicap" and "disabled
person";

(f) Reviewing the Human Development Index of the United Nations
Development Programme to include an evaluation of the way a society treats its
disabled citizens as a factor of the quality of life in that society;

(g) Continuing United Nations inter-agency meetings established as a
result of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons and focusing such
meetings on the implementation of the World Programme of Action;

Ch) Asking the Statistical Office of the Secretariat, in close
collaboration with the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs
and the relevant United Nations organizations, to continue its important work
of collecting statistical data about disability matters and to publish updated
disability statistics;

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



c

A/471703
English
Page 20

9. ~ the Commission for Social Development to expedite the
elaboration of standard rules on the equalization of opportunities for
disabled ~ersons;

10. Encourages the consideration during major forthcoming events,
including the World Conference on Human Rights to be held in 1993, the
International Conference on Population and Development to be held in 1994, the
International Year of the Family to be observed in 1994, the Fourth World
Conference on Women to be held in 1995 and the World Summit for Social
Development to be held in 1995, of disability issues relevant to the
subjec,t-matter of those events;

11. pecides to continue, in response to General Assembly resolution
46/96 and Economic and Social Council decision 1992/276, the United Nations
Voluntary Fund on Disability and encourages the Secretary-General to explore
diversified funding arrangements to support and strengthen the Fund involving
not only Member States, but also the private sector, with due regard to the
need for greater transparency in the management of the Fund;

12. Appeals to Member States to highlight the observance of the
International Day of Disabled Persons on 3 December every year with a view to
furthering the integration into society of persons with disabilities;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution under
,the item entitled "Social development".

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of
Crime and the Treatment of Offenders

The General Assemb1~,

Recalling its resolution 46/153 of 18 December 1991,

Recognizing that criminality is a major concern of all nations and that
it calls for a concerted response from the international community aimed at
preventing crime, improving the functioning of the criminal justice system and
law enforcement, and increasing respect for individual rights,

Conscious of the vital role of regional cooperation in the fight against
crime and of the potential contribution of interregional and regional
institutes in the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders,

Recognizing the efforts made thus far by the United Nations African
Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders in
fulfilling its mandate through, inter alia, the organization of training
programmes and regional seminars,

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/703
English
Page 21

Aware of the financial difficulties that the Institute continues to face
as a result of the fact that many States of the African region are in the
category of the least developed countries and therefore lack the necessary
resources with which to support the Institute,

Recognizing the urgent need to promote and intensify international
cooperation in crime prevention and criminal justice and the fact that such
cooperation can be effective only if it is executed with the direct
participation of the receiving States, with due respect for their needs and
priorities,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the United
Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of
Offenders; 111

2. Expresses its appreciation to those Governments and
intergovernmental organizations that have supported the Institute in the
discharge of its responsibilities;

3. Calls upon Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to intensify financial and other support to the Institute, in
order to enable it to fulfil its objectives, particularly in the fields of
training, technical assistance, policy guidance, research and data collection;

4. Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to ensure that
SUfficient resources are provided to the Institute, within the overall
appropriations of the programme budget for the biennium 1992-1993 in support
of the Institute, to enable it to carry out, in full and on time, all its
mandates;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of
the present resolution to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

The role of cooperatives in the light of new economic
and social trends

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 44/58 of 8 December 1989, in particular
paragraph 4 thereof, and Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/25 of
30 July 1992,

1d/ A/47/379 and Corr.l.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



=
Al471703
English
Page 22

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General on the status and role of
cooperatives in the light of new economic and social trends, 11/

Recognizing the importance of the policy-oriented research being
undertaken by the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs of
the Secretariat concerning the relevance of cooperatives to the achievement of
the social policy objectives set forth in the Guiding Principles for
Developmental Social Welfare Policies and Programmes in the Near Future, 25/
in the execution of which it acts as a focal point within the United Nations
system,

Bearing in mind that 1995 will mark the centenary of the establishment of
the International Cooperative Alliance,

Taking note with satisfaction of the important recommendations contained
in the report of the Secretary-General 26/ directed towards ensuring the best·
possible means of dealing with the issue of cooperatives in the light of their
broad significance in contributing to the solution of major economic and
social problems,

Welcoming the recommendation contained in paragraph 4 (a) of the report
of the Secretary-General, and bearing in mind the substantial support shown by
Governments and by the international cooperative movement for the idea of
observing an international day of cooperatives,

Expressing its appreciation to government agencies, national
organizations representing cooperatives, the specialized agencies and other
organizations, especially the Committee for the Promotion and Advancement of
Cooperatives, for their valuable contribution,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General
on the status and role of c00peratives in the light of new economic and social
trends; 24/

2. Proclaims the first Saturday of July 1995 to be International Day of
Cooperatives, marking the centenary of the establishment of the International
Cooperative Alliance, and decides to consider the possibility of observing an
international day of cooperatives in future years;

3. Encourages Governments to consider fully the potential of
cooperatives for contributing to the solution of economic, social and
environmental problems in formUlating national development strategies;

24/ A/47/216-E/l992/43.

25/ E/CONF.80/10, chap. III.

lQ/ A/47/2l6-E/l992/43, para. 4.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/703
English
Page 23

4. Encourages the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs of the Secretariat to redouble its efforts of support and coordination
in order to achieve the social policy objectives set forth in the Guiding
Principles for Developmental Social Welfare Policies and Programmes in the
Near Future;

5. Invites government agencies, national organizations representing
cooperatives, the specialized agencies and other organizations, especially the
Committee for the Promotion and Advancement of Cooperatives, to maintain and
increase their programmes of support to the international cooperative
movement, within existing resources;

6. Also invites, as the Economic and Social Council has already done in
its resolution 1668 (LII) of 1 June 1972, the specialized agencies that have a
substantial interest in cooperatives, especially the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization, and other organizations, particularly the World Bank
and the International Fund for Agricultural Development, as well as other
relevant international organizations of cooperatives that are not yet members
of the Committee for the Promotion and Advancement of Cooperatives, to become
members at an early date in order to ensure its effectiveness by their
contribution of appropriate resources;

7. Requests the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to
maintain and increase the support provided by the United Nations to the
programmes and objectives of the international cooperative movement, and to
submit a report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session on the
status and role of cooperatives in the light of new economic and social
trends, indicating in his report the progress made towards that goal.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Crime prevention and criminal justice

The General Assembly,

Alarmed by the high costs of crime, particularly in its new and
transnational forms, and by the dangers posed to individual and collective
security and to the welfare of countries and peoples by the rising incidence
of crime,

Emphasizing the need for global efforts commensurate with the magnitude
of national and transnationa1 crime, and for strengthened regional and
international cooperation to combat crime in all its forms and to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of criminal justice systems,

Bearing in mind the goals of the United Nations in the field of crime
prevention and criminal justice, specifically the reduction of criminality,
more efficient and effectiv9 law enforcement and administration of justice,
respect for human rights and the promotion of the highest standards of
fairness, humanity and professional conduct,

I • .•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



•
10./471703
English
Page 24

Recognizing that many States suffer from extreme shortages of human and
financial resources, preventing them from responding adequately to problems
related to crime,

Noting with appreciation the efforts made by many States at the bilateral
level to provide assistance and know-how in the field of crime prevention and
criminal justice,

Bearing in mind that effective international action in crime prevention
and criminal justice requires effective cooperation and improved coordination
of all related activities carried out at the bilateral and multilateral levels,

Recalling its previous resolutions by which it expressed its concern
about the increasing needs of Member States and the capacity of the United
Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme to meet them,

Recalling also the recommendations of the Ministerial Meeting on the
Creation of an Effective United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice
Programme, held at Versailles, France, from 21 to 23 November 1991, and
adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution 46/152 of 18 December 1991
on the creation of an effective United Nations crime prevention and criminal
justice programme, including the Statement of Principles and Programme of
Action contained in the annex thereto,

Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/1 of
6 February 1992, by which the Council decided to establish the Commission on
Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice,

Mindful of the responsibilities of the Commission, recommended by the
Ministerial Meeting and entrusted to it by the General Assembly and the
Economic and Social Council in their relevant resolutions,

Recognizing the need for an appropriate Secretariat support structure,
capable of performing the new functions mandated by the General Assembly in
its resolution 46/152 and by the Economic and Social Council in its resolution
1992/22 of 30 July 1992,

Concerned about the disparity between the scope of the required work and
the limited resources available, including resources for practical measures,
to assist Member States, upon their request, in dealing with their most urgent
needs in preventing and combating crime problems,

1. Welcomes the establishment of the Commission on Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice and the results of its first session, held at Vienna from 21
to 30 April 1992; 27/

27/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 10 (E/1992/30).

I • ••

-

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/703
English
Page 25

2. Welcomes with appreciation Economic and Social Council resolutions
1992/22, 1992/23 and 1992/24 of 30 July 1992;

3. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the measures
taken to implement the Statement of Principles and Programme of Action of the
United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme, ~/ on the
United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment
of Offenders 29/ and on the strengthening of international cooperation in
combating organized crime; 30/

4. Recognizes that the United Nations crime prevention and criminal
justice programme has a special contribution to make in a world seeking to
surmount serious problems of violence and crime;

5. Recalls the priority themes established by the Economic and Social
Council in its resolution 1992/22 to guide the work of the Commission in the
development of a detailed programme and the budget allocations for the period
1992-1996, as follows:

(a) National and transnational crime, organized crime, economic crime,
including money laundering, and the role of criminal law in the protection of
the environment;

(b) Crime prevention in urban areas, juvenile and violent criminality;

(c) Efficiency, fairness and improvement in the management and
administration of criminal justice and related systems, with due emphasis on
the strengthening of national capacities in developing countries for the
regular collection, collation, analysis and utilization of data in the
development and implementation of appropriate policies;

6. Reguests the Secretary-General to support the operational activities
and advisory services of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal
justice programme, within existing resources from the regular budget of the
Organization commensurate to its high priority and importance, and
independently of resources ~vailable through voluntary contributions;

7. Also requests the Secretary-General to provide from existing
resources adequate funds to build and maintain the institutional capacity of
the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme to respond
to requests of Member States for assistance in this field;

ka/ A/47/399 and Corr.l.

~/ ,A/47/379 and Corr.l.

30/ A/47/38l.

/ .. "

J

i,

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/703
English
Page 26

8. Further requests the Secretary-General, as a matter of urgency, to
take all measures necessary to effect the upgradinq of the Crime Prevention
and Criminal Justice Branch of the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat into a division, as recommended in and
in accordance with resolution 46/152;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures for
assisting the Commission in performing its functions as the principal
policy-making body in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, and
for ensurinq the proper coordination of all relevant activities in the field,
in particular with the Commission on Human Rights and the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs;

10. Invites the relevant funding agencies of the United Nations to
consider including crime prevention and criminal justice activities in their
funding programmes, bearing in mind their established priorities, at a level
of priority commensurate to the increasing needs of Member States in the
field, and to cooperate closely with the United Nations crime prevention and
criminal justice programme in planning and implementing those activities;

11. Inyites Governments to lend their full support to the United Nations
crime prevention and criminal justice programme and to increase their
financial contributions to the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal
Justice Fund.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




