








































,UNITED·
Jlr-IATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

A/47/644
10 November 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fo rty-s eventh se s sion
Agenda item 98

INFORMATION FROM NON -SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 e OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Khalid Mohammad AL-BAKER (Qatar)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-seventh session the item entitled "Information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 g of the Charter
of the United Nations". At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate
the item to the Fourth Committee.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 98, 99, 100 and 12, 101, and 105, on
the understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 98 at its 2nd to 8th meetings,
between 6 October and 3 November ( see A/C.4/47/SR. 2-8). The general debate on
the items referred to above, including the present item, took place at the
3 rd to 7th meetings, between 13 and 22 October.

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 5 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the re levant activities of the Special Committee
during 1992 and drew attention to chapter VIII of the report of that Committee
relating to item 98 (A/47/23 (Part IV» 1/ containing, inter alia, the related

1./ To be incorporated .in Of£icial Records of the General Assembly,
Forty seventh Session, Supplement No, 23 (A/47/23).

A

92-68911 0834P (E) 111 J. 92 121192 / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/644
English
Page 2

draft resolution submitted by the Committee for the consideration of the
Fourth Committee.

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the
Secretary-General relating to the item (A/47/473).

6. At its 8th meeting, on 3 November, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 10 of chapter VIII of the report of the
Special Committee (A/47 /23 (Part IV» by a recorded vote of 129 to none, with
3 abstentions (see para. 7). ~/ The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rice, Cote d' Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic
of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

f

}

I

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

~/ The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland made a statement in explanation of vote.

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania
informed the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour of the draft
resolution.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



[
I

A/47/644
English
Page 3

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

7. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft reso~ution:

Information from Non-Sel f-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countr les and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 ~ of the
Charter of the United Nations 1/ and the action taken by the Committee in
respec t of that info rmation,

Having also examined the repo rt of the Secretary-General on the
question, 51

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 15 December 1963, in which it
reques ted the Special Committee to study the information transmitted to the
Secretary-Gener al in accordance wi th Article 73 ~ of the Charter and to take
such information fully into account in examining the situation with regard to
the implementation 0 f the Dec laration on the Granting of Independence to
Coloni al Countr ies and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Recalling also its resolution 46/63 of 11 December 1991, in which it
reques ted the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under resolution ~970 (XVIII),

Stressing the importance of timely transmission by the administering
Powers of adequate information under Article 73 ~ of the Charter, in
particular in relation to the preparation by the Secretariat of the working
papers on the Territories concerned,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the DeClaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countr ies and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Terri torie s transmitted under Article 73 ~ of the
Charte r of the United Nations; ~I

4 / 71../47/ 23 (Part IV), chap. VII I •

5/ 71../47/ 473.

I •..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



11./47/644
English
Page 4

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the GeneraJ. Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of
self-government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 ~ of the
Charter with respect to that Territory;

3. Reguests the administering Powers concerned to transmit or continue
to transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in
Article 73 ~ of the Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on
political and constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within
a maximum period of six months following the expiration of the administrative
year in those Territories;

4. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with
the preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concerned;

5. Reguests the Special Committee to continue to discharge the
functions entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in
accordance with established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly
at its forty-eighth session.

f
f
j

r

U~
Nt

-

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




