








































UNITED'
.NATIONS A

General Assembly
Distr.
LIMITED

A/47/L .37/Rev.1
10 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 30

QUESTION OF PALESTINE

Afghanistan. Algeria. Bangladesh. Comoras. Cuba, Guinea,
Indonesia. Jordan, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon. Madagascar. Malaysia, Malta, Mauritania, Pakistan.
Qatar. Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Tunisia, Vanuatu and

Viet Ham: revised draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Committee on the Exercise of the
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, 1/

Taking note, in partiCUlar, of the information contained in paragraphs 66
to 84 of that report,

Recalling its resolutions 46/74 C and 46/75 of 11 December 1991,

Con~inced that the world-wide dissemination of accurate and comprehensive
information and the role of non-governmental organizations and institutions
remain of vital importance in heightening awareness of and support for the
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the action taken by the Department
of Public Information of the Secretariat in compliance with General Assembly
resolution 46/74 C;

l/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
No. 35 (A/47/35).

92-78765 4812Z (E) 101292 101292
/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.37/Rev.l
English
Page 2

2. Requests the Department of public Information, in full cooperation
and coordination with the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights
of the Palestinian People, to continue, with the necessary flexibility as may
be required by developments affecting the question of Palestine, its special
information programme on the question of Palestine for the biennium 1992-1993,
with particular emphasis on public opinion in Europe and North America and, in
particular:

(~) To disseminate information on all the activities of the United
Nations system relating to the question of Palestine, including reports of the
work carried out by the relevant United Nations organs;

(Q) To continue to issue and update publications on the various aspects
of the question of Palestine, including Israeli violations of the human rights
of the Palestinian people and other Arab inhabitants of the occupied
territories as reported by the relevant United Nations organs;

(Q) To expand its audiovisual material on the question of Palestine,
including the production of such material;

(g) To organize and promote fact-finding news missions for journalists
to the area, including the occupied territories;

(~) To organize international, regional and national encounters for
journalists.

...

HITED'
ATIONS

Forty-i
Agenda

A
resolu

I

92-833

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




