








































UNITED'
NATIONS

General !A.8e~rribIY
;e' .

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 66

QUESTION OF ANTARCTICA

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

Distr.
GENERAL

10./47/696
4 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

A
! '

1. The item entitled "Question of A.ntarctica" was included in the
provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly in
accordance with its resolutions 46/41 A and B of 6 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided that
the general debate, consideration of and action on the draft resolution on
item 66 should take place from 23 to 25 November. The deliberations on and
consideration of that item took place between the 38th and 40th meetings, from
23 to 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.38-40). Action on the draft resolution on
that item took place at the 40th meeting, on 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.40).

4. In connection with item 66, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the question of Antarctica
(Al47 1541);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the question o:f Antarctica
(A/47/542);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the state of the environment in
Antarctica (A/47/624). "

'i

92-77457 0887P (E) 051292 071292 I • ..

L

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/696
English
Page :2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/47/L.54

5. On 23 November 1992, Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam,
Guinea, Indonesia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malaysia, Nepal, Nigeria, the Philippines,
Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania and Yemen
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Question of Antarctica"
(A/C.l/41/L.54), which was later also sponsored by Oman. Subsequent to the
issuance of the draft resolution, the delegation of Mauritius informed the
Secretariat that it had decided to join the list of sponsors of the draft
resolution on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are
members of the Group of African States. The draft resolution was introduced
by the representative of Malaysia at the 39th meeting, on 24 ~ovember.

6. At its 40th meeting, on 25 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.54 by a roll-call vote of 71 to none, with 6 abstentions
(see para. 7). The voting was as follows: 1/

-

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cyprus, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Jordan, 'Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius,
Mexico, M01;lgolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, , .
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan; Panama,
Philippines, Qatar~' Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

j
I1

Against: None.

Abstaining: Ireland, Liechtenstein, Malta, Portugal, Turkey, Venezuela.

1/ The following 45 States announced that they were not participating
in the vote:

Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Italy, JaRan,
Luxembourg, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian
Federation, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America and Uruguay.

Subsequently, the delegation of Afghanistan indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...
~
IDigitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



•

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

1./47/696
English
Page 3

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Quest~on of Antarctica

The General Assemb1y~

Having considered the item entitled "Question of Antarctica",

Recalling its resolutions 38/77 of 15 December 1983, 39/152 of
17 December 1984, 40/156 A and B of 1~ December 1985, 41/88 A and B of
4 December 1986, 42/46 A and B of 30 November 1987, 43/83 A and B of
7 December 1988, 44/124 A and B of 15 December, 1989~ 45/78 A and B of
12 December 1990 and 46/41 A and B of 6 December 1991,

Recalling also the relevant paragraphs of the final documents adopted by
the second meeting of States of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South
At1antic~ held at ~uja from 25 to 29 June 1990, 1/ the Twentieth Islamic
Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Istanbul from 4 to 8 August 1991, ;V
the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting~ held at Harare from 16 to
22 October 1991 .i/and the Tenth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to 6 September 1992, .5./

Recalling further the Declaration on South Africa adopted by the Assembly
of Heads of State ~nd Government of the Organization of African Unity at its
twenty-eighth ordinary session, held at Dakar f~om 29 June to 1 July 1992,

Taking into account the debates on this item held since its thirty-eighth
session~

Reaffirming the principle that the international community is entitled to
information covering all aspects of Antarctica and that the United Nations
should be made the repository for all such information in accordance with
General Assembly resolutions 41/88 A, 42/46 B~ 43/83 A~ 44/124 B, 45/78 A and
46/41 A,

1/ See 1./45/474, annex.

~/ A/46/486-S/23055~ annex.

i/ 1./46/708, annex, para. 44.

~/ A/47/675-S/24816~ annex.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-
A/47/696
English
Page 4

Welcoming the decision of the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to
submit to the Secretary-General the final report of the Sixteenth Antarctic,
Treaty Consultative Meeting, which took place at Bonn from 7 to
18 October 1991,

Conscious of the particular significance of Antarctica to the t
international community in terms, inter alia, of international peace and t
security, environment, its effects on global climate conditions, economy and
scientific research,

Conscious also of the interrelationship between Antarctica and the
physical, chemical and biological processes that regulate the total Earth
system,

i I

Welcoming the increasing recognition of the significant impact that
Antarctica exerts on the global environment and ecosystems and of the need for
a comprehensive agreement to be negotiated by the international community on
the protection and conservation of the Antarctic environment and its dependent
and associated ecosystems,

Reiterating the concern over the environmental degradation of Antarctica
and its impact on the global environment,

Welcoming the recognition by the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro from 3 to 14 June 1992, of the value
of Antarctica as an area for the conduct of scientific research, in particular
research essential to understanding the global environment,

Welcoming also the increasing support, including by some Antarctic Treaty
Consultative Parties, for the establishment of Antarctica as a nature reserve
or world park to ensure the protection and conservation of its environment and
its dependent and associated ecosystems for the benefit of all mankind,

Welcoming further the ongoing trend in acknowledging the need for
internationally coordinated scientific research stations in Antarctica in
order to minimize unnecessary duplication and logistical support facilities,

Welcoming further the increasing awareness of an interest in Antarctica
shown by the international community, and convinced of the advantages to the
whole of mankind of a better knowledge of Antarctica,

Affirming its conviction that, in the interest of all mankind, Antarctica
should continue for ever to be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and that
it should not become the scene or object of international discord,

Reaffirming that the management and use of Antarctica should be conducted
in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and in the interest of maintaining international peace and security
and of promoting international cooperation for the benefit of mankind as a
whole,

I ..•

I
I

I
~
f~

\1
I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/696
English
Page 5

Convinced of the need for concerted international cooperation in order to
protect and safeguard Antarctica and its dependent ecosystems from external
environmental disturbances for future generations,

1. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General Q/ on the report
of the Sixteenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, which took place in
Bonn from 7 to 18' October 1991, and on the participation of the apartheid
minority regime of South Africa in meetings of the Antarctic Treaty
Consultative Parties;

2. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the state of the
environment in Antarctica, 2/ and requests the Secretary-General to explore
the possibilities of publishing, as official documents of the United Nations,
extracts of data received from the various organizations in the preparation of
future annual reports, within existing resources;

3. While noting the cooperation of some United Nations specialized
agencies and programmes at the Sixteenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative
Meeting, expresses its regret that, despite the numerous resolutions.adopted
by the General Assembly, the Secretary-General or his representative has not
been invited to the meetings of the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties, and
urges once again the Consultative Parties to invite the Secretary-General or
his representative to their future meetings;

4. Bearing in mind that the Antarctic Treaty is, by its terms, intended
to further the purposes and principles embodied in the Charter of the United
Nations, with which South Africa has yet to comply fully, calls upon the
Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to prevent South Africa from
participating fUlly in the meetings of the Consultative Parties pending the
attai~ent of a non-racial democratic government in that country;

5. While welcoming the decision of the Antarctic Treaty Consultative
Parties to provide information regarding the Sixteenth Antarctic Treaty
Consultative Meeting, encourages the Parties to provide to the
Secretary-General, on a continuing basis, more information and documents
covering all aspects of Antarctica, and requests the Secretary-General to
submit a report on his evaluations thereof to the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth sess ion;

6. Welcomes the commitment made by the Antarctic Treaty Consultative
IParties under chapter 17 of Agenda 21, adopted by the United Nations
jCOnference on Environment and Development, ~/ as provided for in article III
1
of the Antarctic Treaty, to continue:

Q/ A/47/541 and A/47/542.

2/ A/47/624.

~/ See A/CONF.151/26 (vols. I-III).

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/696
English
Page 6

! I

(a) To ensure that data and information resulting from scientific
research activities conducted in Antarctica are freely available to the
international community;

(b) To enhance access of the international scientific community and
specialized agencies of the United Nations to such data and information,
including the encouragement of periodic seminars and symposia;

• f.

7. Urges the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to build on the
agreements achieved at the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, particularly as noted in paragraph 6 of the present resolution,
and, in this connection, actively to explore the possibility of organizing an
annual seminar/symposium covering issues relating to the environment,
commencing in 1993, with as wide international participation as possible,
including that of international organizations such as the United Nations;

8. ~ the Antarctic Treaty Consultative pkrties to establish
monitoring and implementation mechanisms to ensure compliance with the
provisions of the Madrid Protocol on Environmental Protection;

9. Welcoming the ban on prospecting and mining in and around Antarctica
for the next fifty years by Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties in
accordance with the 1991 Madrid Protocol on Environmental Protection, and
reiterates its call for the ban to be made permanent;

10. Reiterates its call that any move at drawing up an international
convention to establish a nature reserve or world park in Antarctica and its
dependent and associated ecosystems must be negotiated with the full
participation of the international community;

11. While welcoming the concrete steps taken by the Secretariat through
the publication by the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat on
Antarctica, reaffirms the need to promote further public awareness of the
importance of Antarctica to the ecosystem, and, in this regard, requests the
Secretary-General to continue to provide relevant materials on Antarctica
through the Department of Public Information within existing resources;

12. Encourages the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to increase the
level of cooperation and collaboration with a view to reducing the number of
scientific stations in Antarctica;

13. Urges the international community to ensure that all activities in
Antarctica are carried out exclusively for the purpose of peaceful scientific
investigation and that all such activities will ensure the maintenance of
international peace and security and the protection of the Antarctic
environment and are for the benefit of all mankind;

I . ..

i
~

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/696
English
Page 7

14. Urges all States Members of the United Nations to cooperate with the
Secretary-General on matters pertaining to Antarctica and to continue
consultations on all aspects relating to the continent;

15. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Question of Antarctica".

II

~

I
j

'!
..•. ;;jDigitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




