








































UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
LIMITED

A/47/L.45
9 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

-
Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 33

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA

Benin, Mauritania, Namibia, Syrian Arab Republic, United
Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Zambia and Zimbabwe: .

draft resolution

Relations between South Africa and Israel

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions concerning the relations between South
Africa and Israel and, in particular, its resolution 46/79 D of
13 December 1991,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee. against Apartheid
on recent developments concerning relations between South Africa and
Israel, ~I and the report of the Secretary-General on South Africa's
nuclear-tipped ballistic missile capability, ~I

Noting with concern that the militury relations between South Africa and
Israel, especially in the area of milita~y technology and in particular the
collaboration in the production and testing of nuclear missiles, continue
unabated,

1. Strongly deplores the collaboration of Israel with the South African
regime in the military and nuclear fields;

~I Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seyenth Session,
Supplement No. 22 (A/47/22), part two.

~I A/46/357 and Add.l.

92-78521 4806Z (E) 101292 101292 I •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.45
English
Page 2

2. Reiterates its demand that Israel desist from and terminate
forthwith a~~ forms of collaboration with South Africa, particularly in the
military and nuclear fields;

3. Urges the Security Counci~ to consider taking appropriate measures
against Israel for its violation of the mandatory arms embargo against South
Africa;

4. Requests the Specia~ Committee against Apartheid to continue to
monitor the relations between South Africa and Israel and keep them under
constant review and report to the General Assembly and the Security Council as
appropriate.

•

NA'

....
F
A

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




