








































:.UNITED·
NATIONS A

General Assembly
Distr·.'

_.':" , , -
GENERAL

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

1. The item entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning- Nuclear Weapon Tests
in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water" was included in the
provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly in
accordance with its resolution 46/28 of 6 December 1991.

{"", ;'
:, /[A~ij)f)i 6 83

27 November 1992,I ,.-.-,

I. INTRODUCTION

I.', I(:'~~,:~}LJ .li'-'{' "~J '~: ,-:~ :,\, 'I

\
1 ·0.'R.IG.I.N.AL.''.::.1.E.N.G.LI.S.H__
J Forty-seventh session
~ Agenda item 53

, AMENDMENT OF THE TREATY BANNING NUCLEAR WEAPON TESTS

I
IN THE ATMOSPHERE, IN OUTER SPACE AND UNDER WATER

!,
I
l.

f
I!

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69, The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.1/47/PV.3-21). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.31-40).

4. The First Committee had no documents before it in connection with
item 53.

92-75786 0872P (E) 301192 031292 / . , .

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



i
.;.,

A/47/683
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/47/L.38

5. On 30 October, Brunei Darussalam, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, India,
Indonesia, Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, Senegal,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the United Republic of Tanzania and Venezuela
submitted a draft resolution, entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning
Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water"
(A/C.1/47/L.38), which was later also sponsored by the Bahamas, Bolivia, the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran (Islamic Republic of) and
Malaysia. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Mexico
at the 30th meeting of the Committee, on l~ November.

6. At the 34th meeting, on 16 November, the Secretary of the Committee made
a statement concerning the programme budget implications of the draft
resolution (see A/C.1/47/PV.34).

7. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.~/47/L.38 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was adopted by a recorded vote of 86 to 2,
with 43 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Cameroon,
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
RepUblic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

l

Against: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus,
Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia,
Fiji, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian
Federation, Samoa, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/683
English
Page 3

(b) Operative paragraph 2 was adopted by a recorded vote of 89 to 2,
with 41 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi,
Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

Against: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein., Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Namibia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

(c) Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.38, as a whole, was adopted by a
recorded vote of 93 to 2, with 40 abstentions (see para. 8). The voting was
as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi,
Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/683
English
Page 4

Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Namibia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

Ill. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Amendment of the Tre§ty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests
in the Atmosphere, in Outer Sp§ce and under Water

The General As§embly,

Recalling its resolutions 44/106 of 15 December 1989, 45/50 of
4 December 1990 and 46/28 of 6 December 1991,

Reiterating its conviction that a comprehensive nuc1ear-test-ban treaty
is the highest priority measure for the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and
for the achievement of the objective of nuclear disarmament,

Recalling the central role of the United Nations in the field of nuclear
disarmament and in particular in the cessation of all nuclear-test explosions,
as well as the persistent efforts of non-governmental organizations in the
achievement of a comprehensive nUclear-test-ban treaty,

Conscious of the growing environmental concerns throughout the world and
of the past and potential negative effects of nuclear testing on the
environment,

Recalling its resolution 1910 (XVIII) of 27 November 1963, in which it
noted with approval the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere,

I . ..

q

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/683
English
Page 5

in Outer Space and under Water, ~/ signed on 5 August 1963, and requested the
Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament 1/ to continue with
a sense of urgency its negotiations to achieve the objectives set forth in the
preamble to the Treaty,

Recalling also that more than one third of the parties to the Treaty
requested the Depositary Governments to convene a conference to consider an

. amendment that would convert the Treaty into a comprehensive test-ban treaty,

Recalling further that a substantive session of the Amendment Conference
of the States Parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water was held in New York from 7 to
18 January 1991,

Reiterating its conviction that the Amendment Conference will facilitate
the attainment of the objectives set forth in the Treaty and thus serve to
strengthen it,

Noting with satisfaction the unilateral nuclear-test moratoria announced
by several nuclear-weapon States,

Recalling its recommendation that arrangements be made to ensure that
intensive efforts continue, under the auspices of the Amendment Conference,
until a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty is achieved,

Recalling also the decision adopted by the Amendment Conference d/ to the
effect that, since further work needed to be undertaken on certain aspects of
a comprehensive test-ban treaty, especially those with regard to verification
of compliance and possible sanctions against non-compliance, the President of
the Conference should conduct consultations with a view to achieving progress
on those issues and to resuming the work of the Conference at an appropriate
time,

Welcoming the ongoing consultations being conducted by the President of
the Amendment Conference,

1. Notes the ongoing consultations being conducted by the President of
the Amendment Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear
Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water and the special
meeting of States parties of a brief duration to be held in New York in the
second quarter of 1993 to review the developments on the issue of nuclear

1/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480, No. 6964.

1/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

~/ PTBT/CONF.13/Rev.1, para. 26.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/683
English
Page 6

testing, with a view to examining the feasibility of resuming the work of the
Amendment Conference later that year;

2. Calls upon all parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in
the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water to participate in, and to
contribute to the success of, the Amendment Conference for the achievement of
a comprehensive nuclear-test ban at an early date, as an indispensable measure·
towards implementation of their undertakings in the preamble to the Treaty;

3. Urges all States, especially those nUClear-weapon States which have
not yet done so, to adhere to the Treaty;

4. Recommends that arrangements should be made to ensure the fullest
possible participation of non-governmental organizations in the Amendment
Conference;

5. Reiterates its conviction that, pending the conclusion of a
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty, the nuclear-weapon States should
suspend all nuclear-test explosions through an agreed moratorium or unilateral
moratoria;

6. Stresses once again the importance of ensuring adequate coordination
among the various negotiating forums dealing with a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon
Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water".

,

I

fDigitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




