








































UNITED'
NATIONS A
~---------------------------------------------

•

General Assembly lJLC ? '19D(
Distr.

UNISA C()LL~ttj~~)t\l
A/47/680
27 November 1992.

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 50

SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR IMPACT
ON INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security" was included in the provisional agenda of
the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly in accordance with its
resolution 45/60 of 4 December 1990.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security agenda
items allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.l/47/PV.3-21). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.31-40).

4. In connection with item 50, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

I
: )

92-75639 0868P (E) 011292 021292 / .. ,

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



1>../47/680
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Disarmament Commission; £/

,
I

(b) Report· of theSedtetiitY-General on scientific and technological
developments and their impact on international security (A/47/355);

(c) Letter dated 28 April 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Argentina to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/l8l).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/47/L.32

5. On 30 October, Afghanistan. Belarus. Bolivia. Costa Rica. Hungary. India,
Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Venezuela submitted a draft resolution, entitled
"Scientific and technological developments and their impact on international
security" (A/C.1/47/L.32), which was later also sponsored by Bhutan. The
draft resolution was introduced by the representative of India at the
28th meeting, on 10 November.

6. At its 34th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.32 by a recorded vote of 104 to 3, with 28 abstentions
(see para. 7). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RepUblic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
RepUblic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42).

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/680
English
Page 3

Against: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Scientific and technological developments and
their impact on international security

The General Assembly,

Recalling that at its tenth special session, the first special session
devoted to disarmament, it unanimously stressed the importance of both
qualitative and quantitative measures in the process of disarmament,

Recognizing that scientific and technological developments can have both
civilian and military applications and that progress in science and technology
for civilian applications needs to be maintained and encouraged,

Noting with concern the potential in technological advances for
application to military purposes, which could lead to more sophisticated
weapons and new weapon systems,

Stressing the interests of the international community in the subject and
the need to follow closely the scientific and technological developments that
may have a negative impact on the security environment and on the process of
arms limitation and disarmament and to channel scientific and technological
developments for beneficial purposes,

Emphasizing that the proposal contained in its resolution 43/77 A of
7 December 1988 is without prejUdice to research and development efforts being
undertaken for peaceful purposes,

Noting the results of the United Nations Conference on New Trends in
Science and Technology: Implications for International Peace and Security,
held at Sendai, Japan, from 16 to 19 April 1990, ~I and recognizing, in this

~/ See A/45/568.

I . ..

%

-Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



11./47/680
English
Pag~ 4

regard, the need for the scientific and policy communities to work together in
dealing with the complex implications of technological change,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled
"Scientific and technological developments and their impact on international
security"; ~/

2. Takes note also of the interim report of the Secretary-General if
submitted in pursuance of resolution 45/60 of 4 December 1990;

3. Fully agrees that:

(a) The international community needs to position itself better to
follow the nature and direction of technological change;

(b) The United Nations can serve as a catalyst and a clearing-house for
ideas to this purpose;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to follow scientific and
technological developments in order to make an assessment of emerging "new
technologies" and to submit to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session a framework for technology assessment guided, inter alia, by the
criteria suggested in his report;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security".

UN
NA'

-

~/ A/45/568.

A/47/355.

\
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




