








































A' ..

UNITED' A
~ATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/47/659
24 November 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 92

RIGHT OF PEOPLES TO SELF-DETERMINATION

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Vitavas SRIVIHOK (Thailand)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-seventh session the item entitled "Right of peoples to
self-determination" and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item jointly with item 91 at its 3rd to
10th, 13th, 20th and 25th meetings, on 5, 7 to 9, 14, 21 and 25 October and
2 November 1992. An account of the Committee's discussions is contained in
the relevant summary records (A/C.3/47/SR.3-10, 13, 20 and 25).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documentation:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General (A/47/433);

(d) Letter dated 25 August 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/564);

(c) Letter dated 17 August 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Solomon Islands to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/391);

(b) Note by the Secretary-General on the use of mercenaries as a means
of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to
self-determination (A/47/412);

/ ...02129292-74926 0856P (E) 011292
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/659
English
Page 2

(e) Letter dated 20 October 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Turkey to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/47/567-S/24695);

(f) Letter dated 7 October 1992 from the Charge d' affaires a. i. of the
Permanent Mission of Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/C.3/47/3).

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 5 October, the Under-Secretary-General for Human
Rights made a statement (see A/C.3/47/SR.3).

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.4

5. At the 13th meeting, on 21 October, the representative of Mauritania, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of African States, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Importance oE
the universal realization of the right of peoples to self-determination and of
the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples for the
effective guarantee and observance of human rights" (A/C. 3/47/L. 4).

6. At the 25th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of Mauritius, on
behalf of the same sponsors, orally revised the draft resolution as follows!

(a) In the seventh preambular paragraph, the words "the intervention of"
were replaced with the words "action by";

(b) In operative paragraph 10, the word "regime" was replaced wi th the
word "Government";

(c) In operative paragraph 25, the words "anti-apartheid organizations
and" were inserted before the words "national liberation movements".

7. At the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement in
explanation of vote before the vote (see A/C.3/47/SR.25).

8. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/47/L.4, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 90 to 22, with 30
abstentions (see para. 19, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows!

In f~: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde,~
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cote d' Ivoire,
CUba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Georgia,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon,

I . ..

,

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/659
English
Page 3

Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Israel,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania,
Russian Federation, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Estonia, Greece, Grenada, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), New
Zealand, Panama, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Slovenia, Spain, Swaziland, Turkey, Ukraine,
Uruguay.

9. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Jamaica, Uruguay, Brazil, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland (on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the European Community), the Russian Federation,
the United States of America, Australia, Japan, Panama and Zimbabwe (see
A/C.3/47/SR.25).

B. Draft resolutiQn A/C.3/47/L.5

10. At the 13th meeting, on 21 October, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf Qf Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Cgpe Verde, Chile, Colombia, the CQmQros, Costa Rica, Djibouti, Ecuador,
El SalvadQr, Guatemala, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Malaysia,
Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Catar, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, the Sudan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago and
the United Arab Emirates, introduced .a draft resolution entitled "Universal
realization of the right of peoples to self-determination" (A/C.3/47/L.5).
Subsequently, Bahrain, the Dominican Republic and Nicaragua joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

11. At the 20th meeting, on 28 October, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.3/47/L.5 without a vote (see para. 19, draft resolution 11).

12. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of India
made a statement (see A/C.3/47/SR.20).

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/659
English
Page 4

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/47/L.7

13. At the 13th meeting, on 21 October, the representative of Cuba, on beha!!
of Angola, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Mexico, Namibia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone,
Uganda, the United RepUblic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe,
introduced a draft resolution enti tIed "Use of mercenaries as a means to
violate human rights and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to
self-determination" and orally revised it by deleting from operative
paragraph 4 the words "and for the destabil ization of the Governments of
southern African States" (AlC.3/47/L.7).

14. Subsequently, Liberia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

15. At the 25th meeting, on 2 November, the representative of Cuba further
orally revised the draft resolution by replacing the words "racist South
African regime" with the words "Government of South Africa" in operative
paragraph 4.

16. At the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement in
explanation of vote before the vote (see A/C.3/47/SR.25).

17. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/47/L.7 by a recorded vote of 96 to 10, with 36 abstentions (see
para. 19, draft resolution Ill). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic 01
Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, RepUblic of Moldova,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
Sr i Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Belgiwn, Bulgar ia, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Portugal, Uni ted Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United St~tes of America.

/ .. '

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



----------------
A/47!659
English
Page 5

Abstaining: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Canada,
Croatia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of),
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation,
Slovenia, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine.

lB. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
European Community, Japan, Brazil and Kazakhstan (see A/C-3/47/SR.20).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

19. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Importance of the universal realization of the right of peoples
to self-determination and of the speedy granting Qf independence
tQ colonial countries and peoples fQr the effective guarantee

~Qbservance of human rights

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its faith in the importance of the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Reaffirming also the importance of the universal realization of the right
of peoples to self-determination, national sovereignty and territorial
integrity and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and
peoples as imperatives for the full enjoyment of all human rights,

Reaffirming further the obligation of all Member States to comply with
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of the
United Nations regarding the exercise of the right to self-determination by
peoples under colonial and foreign domination,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) and all relevant resolutions
concerning the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

CQnsidering the urgent need of Namibia for assistance in its efforts to
reconstruct and strengthen its fledgling economic and social structures,

/ ...

i
i
i

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/659
English
Page 6

Recalling with satisfaction the adoption at Harare on 21 August 1989 of
the Declaration of, the Ad Hoc Committee of the Organization of African Unity
on Southern Africa on the question of South Africa 1/ and its subsequent
endorsement by the Ninth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, ~/ as well
as the report of the Monitoring Group of the Ad Hoc Committee of the
Organization of African Unity on Southern Africa, 11 and the Declaration on
Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, 11 adopted by
the General Assembly on 14 December 1969,

Welcoming Security Council resolution 765 (1992) of 16 July 1992, and
Council resolution 772 (1992) of 17 August 1992, which, inter alia, provides
the basis for action by the Secretary-General in South Africa in order to
assist the people of South Africa in ending the violence in that country,

Recalling the Abuja Declaration on South Africa, adopted by the Assembly
of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its
twenty-seventh ordinary session, held at Abuja from 3 to 5 June 1991, ~/

Raaffirming that the system of apartheid imposed on the South African
people constItutes a violation of the fundamental rights of that people, a
crime against humanity and a threat to regional peace and security,

Deeply concerned that, in spite of the National Peace Accord signed on
14 September 1991, Q/ acts of assassination of members and leaders of national
liberation movements in South Africa are still continuing,

Recalling its resolution 46/79 A, adopted by consensus on
13 December 1991, in which, inter alia, it reaffirmed the need for the full
implementation of the provisions of the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa that were not yet fulfilled,

Noting with concern that, while significant legal and political measures
in the right direction have been undertaken by the Government of South AfrIca,
there remain various pieces of security legislation that restrict the
possibilities for free and peaceful political activity, and that apartheid
remains in place,

d/ A/44/697, annex.

See A/44/55l-S/20870, annex.

d/ A/44/963, annex.

1/ Resolution S-16/1, annex.

51 A/46/390, annex 11.

QI See Centre Against Apartheid, Notes and DOcuments, No. 23/91.

I . ..

,
I,

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



......-------
A/47/659
English
Page 7

Noting with concern that political trials and the detention of opponents
of apartheid continue in South Africa in total disregard of the provisions of
the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern
Africa,

Deeply concerned about the current wave of violence in South Africa
resulting from the continued existence of apartheid policies, practices and
structures as well as from actions of those forces opposed to the democratic
transformation of the country,

Gravely concerned that a number of South African patriots remain on death
row,

Welcoming the signing of the General Peace Agreement for Mozambique 1/ at
Rome on 4 October 1992, which provides for the termination of the armed
conflict in that country,

Reaffirming the national unity and territorial integrity of the Comoros,

Recalling the Geneva Declaration on Palestine and the Programme of Action
for the Achievement of Palestinian Rights, adopted by the International
Conference on the Question of Palestine, ~/

Considering that the continuation of the Israeli oppressive measures and
the denial of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to
self-determination, sovereignty, independence and return to Palestine
constitute a serious threat to international peace and security,

Bearing in mind United Nations resolutions related to the question of
Palestine and the rights of the Palestinian people,

Deeply concerned and alarmed at the deplorable consequences of Israel's
acts of aggression against Lebanon and its practices in and its continuing
occupation of parts of southern Lebanon, as well as its refusal to implement
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, in particular resolution
425 (1978) of 19 March 1978,

1. Calls upon all States to implement fUlly and faithfully all the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations regarding the exercise of the right
to self-determination and independence by peoples under colonial and foreign
domination;

1/ S/24635, annex.

~/ Report of the International Conference on the Question of Palestine,
Geneva, 29 August-7 September 1983 (United Nations pUblication, Sales
No. E. 83. r. 21), chap. I.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/659
English
Page 8

. . t le of peoples for
2. Reaffirms the legJ.tJ.macy of th~ s ~Ugg't and liberation from

independence, territorial integrity, na~J.ona unJ.t~on in all its forms and by
colonial domination, apartheid and foreJ.gn occupa J. ,
all available means;

•

national

people and3. Reaffirms also the inalienable right.of the.Pal~stinian
all peoples under foreign occupation and colonJ.al domJ.n~tJ.on ~o
self-determination, national independence, territorial J.ntegrJ.ty,
unity and sovereignty without foreign interference:

4. Calls upon those Governments which do not r~cognize thelri?h~
self-determination and independence of all peoples stJ.ll under co onJ.a
domination, alien subjugation and foreign occupation to do so:

to

5. Calls upon Israel to refrain from the constant, delibera~e
violations of the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, whJ.ch
constitute an obstaCle to the achievement of self-determination and
independence by the Palestinian people and the ongoing efforts towards
comprehensive peace in the region:

6. ~ all States, the specialized agencies and organizations of the
United Nations system, as well as other international organizations, to extend
their support to the Palestinian people through its sole and legitimate
representative, the Palestine Liberation Organization, in its struggle to
regain its right to self-determination and independence in accordance wi th the
Charter of the United Nations:

7. Urgently appeal/:! to all States, the organizations of the United
Nations system and other international organizations to render assistance to
Namibia in order to enhance its efforts in promoting democracy and economicdevelopment:

8. ReaffirmG its rejection of the SO-called "tri-cameral constitution"
of 1983 as null and void, and reiterates that peace in South Africa can be
guaranteed only by the establiShment of majority rule through the full and
free exercise of adult Suffrage by all the people in a united and undividedSouth Africa:

9. Strongly urg~ the Government of South Africa to take additional
steps to implement fUlly the provisions of the Declaration of the Ad Hoc
Committee of the Organization of African Unity on Southern Africa on the
question of South Africa, 11 and the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa: 11

10, ~. for an immediate end to violence and calls upon the Government
of ?Outh Africa to exercise its responSibility to end it through, inter alia,
strJ.ct adherence to the National Peace Accord;

11. Calls-ynnn all s'g t' . ,
. .~ J. na orJ.es to the NatJ.onal Peace Accord to manifesttheJ.r COmmJ.tment to peace by fUll . 1 " . ,

y J.mp ementJ.ng J.ts provJ.sJ.ons and calls upon
all other parties to Contribute to the attainment of its Objectives:

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



--.----------
A/471659
English
Page 9

12. Strongly condemns the establishment and use of armed groups with a
view to pitting them against the national liberation movements;

13. Demands that the Government of South Africa repeal the security
legislation that remains in force, which inhibits fr.ee and peaceful political
activity;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to act speedily to implement Security
Council resolution 772 (1992) in its entirety, including those parts
pertaining to the investigation of criminal conduct and the monitoring of all
armed formations in the country;

15. Demands the full application of the mandatory arms embargo against
South Africa, imposed under Security Council resolution 418 (1977) of
4 November 1977, by all countries and more particularly by those countries
which maintain military and nuclear cooperation with the Government of South
Africa and continue to supply it with related materiel;

16. Expresses its deep concern about the actions by certain countries
whose premature relaxation of existing measures against the South African
regime, in flagrant violation of the United Nations consensus declaration,
encourages the regime to persist in its oppression of the Black majority with
regard to their right to self-determination;

17. Strongly urges the international community, pursuant to General
Assembly resolution 46/87 of 16 December 1991, to continue to extend maximum
assistance to Lesotho to enable it to fulfil its international humanitarian
obligations towards refugees;

18. Pays tribute to the Government and people of Angola for their noble
contribution to the evolving climate of peace in southern Angola;

19. Demands that the Government of South Africa pay compensation to
Angola for damages caused, in accordance with the relevant decisions and
resolutions of the Security Council;

20. Demands also that the Government of South Africa pay full and
adequate compensation to Botswana for the loss of life and damage to property
resulting from the unprovoked and unwarranted military attacks of
14 June 1985, 19 May 1906 and 20 June 1988 on the capital of Botswana;

21. Calls upon the international community to extend its generous
support to the ongoing efforts aimed at ensuring respect for and the
successful implementation of the General Peace Agreement for Mozambique signed
at Rome on 4 October 1992 11 and at assisting the Government of Mozambique in
the establishment of lasting peace and democracy and in the promotion of an
effective programme of national reconstruction in that country;

22. Fylly supports the Secretary-General in his efforts to implement the
plan for the settlement of the question of Western Sahara by organizing, in

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



2

A/47/659
English
Page 10

cooperation with the Organization of African Unity, a referendum for the
self-determination of the people of Western Sahara;

23. ~ the contacts between'the Government of the Comoros and the
Government of France in the search for a just solution to the problem of the
integration of the Comorian island of Mayotte into the Comoros, in accordance
with the resolutions of the Organization of African Unity and the United
Nations on the question;

24. Strongly condemns the continued violation of the human rights of the
peoples still under colonial domination and alien SUbjugation: !

I

25. ~ for a substantial increase in all forms of assistance given by !
all States, United Nations organs, the specialized agencies and r
non-governmental organizations to the victims of racism, racial discrimination I
and apartheid through anti-apartheid organizations and national liberation
movements recognized by the Organization of African Unity;

26. Reaffirms that the practice of using mercenaries against sovereign
States and national liberation movements constitutes a criminal act, and calls
upon the Governments of all countries to enact legislation declaring the
recruitment, financing and training of mercenaries in their territories and
the transit of mercenaries through their territories to be punishable offences
and prohibiting their nationals from serving as mercenaries, and to report on
such legislation to the Secretary-General;

27. Demands the immediate and unconditional release of all persons
detained or imprisoned as a result of their struggle for self-determination
and independence, full respect for their fundamental individual rights and
compliance with article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ~/
under which no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment;

28. Expresses its appreciation for the material and other forms of
assistance that peoples under colonial rule continue to receive from
Governments, organizations of the United Nations system and other
intergovernmental organizations, and calls for a SUbstantial increase in that
assistance:

29. ~ all States, the specialized agencies and other competent
organizations of the United Nations system to do their utmost to ensure the
full implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples and to intensify their efforts to support
peoples under colonial, foreign and racist domination in their just struggle
for self-determination and independence;

30. Decides to consider this question at its forty-eighth session under
the item entitled "Right of peoples to self-determination".

~I Resolution 217 A (Ill).

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



------------
A/47/659
English
Page 11

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Universal realization of the right of peoples
to self-determination

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the importance, for the effective guarantee and observance of
human rights, of the universal realization of the right of peoples to
self-determination enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and embodied
in the International Covenants on Human Rights, ~I as well as in the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960.

Welcoming the progressive exercise of the right to self-determination by
peoples under colonial, foreign or alien occupation and their emergence into
sovereign statehood and independence,

Deeply concerned at the continuation of acts or threats of foreign
military intervention and occupation that are threatening to suppress. or have
already suppressed, the right to self-determination of an increasing number of
sovereign peoples and nations,

Expressing grave concern that, as a consequence of the persistence of
such actions, millions of people have been and are being uprooted from their
homes as refugees and displaced persons, and emphasizing the urgent need for
concerted international action to alleviate their condition,

Recalling the relevant resolutions regarding the violation of the right
of peoples to self-determination and other human rights as a result of foreign
military intervention, aggression and occupation, adopted by the Commissiop on
Human Rights at its thirty-sixth, ~/ thirty-seventh, 111 thirty-eighth, 111

£QI Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

III See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1980,
Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/1980/l3 and Corr.I), chap. ~~VI, sect. A.

~I Ibid., 1981. Supplement No. 5 and corrigendum (E/1981/25 and
eorr.I), chap. XXVIII, sect. A.

131 Ibid., 1982, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/1982/12 and
Corr.l), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

/ ...

:""

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



1\/47/659

English
Page 12

thirty-ninth, 14/ fortieth, ~I forty-first, 1&/ forty-second, 11/
forty-third, 18/ forty-fourth, ~/ forty-fifth, lQ/ forty-sixth, 211
forty-seventh ~/and forty-eighth 11/ sessions,

Reaffirming its resolutions 35/35 B of 14 November 1980, 36/10 of
28 October 1981, 37/42 of 3 December 1982, 38/15 of 22 November 1983, 39/18 of
23 November 1984, 40/24 of 29 November 1985, 41/100 of 4 December 1986, 42/94
of 7 December 1987, 43/105 of 8 December 1988, 44/80 of 8 December 1989,
45/131 of 14 December 1990 and 46/88 of 16 December 1991,

Iaking note of the report of the Secretary-General, 24/

1. Reaffirms that the universal realization of the right of all
peoples, including those under colonial, foreign and alien domination, to
self-determination is a fundamental condition for the effective guarantee and
observance of human rights and for the preservation and promotion of such
rights;

14/ Ibid., 1983, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/1983/13 and
Corr.1), chap. XXVII, sect. A.

~/ Ibid., 1984, Supplement No. 4 and corrigendum (E/1984/14 and
Corr.1), chap. 11, sect. A.

~/ Ibid., 1985, Supplement No. 2 (E/19S5/22), chap. 11, sect. A.

lL/ Ibid., 1986, Supplement No. 2 (E/1986/22), chap. 11, sect. A.

~/ Ibid., 1987, Sypplement No. 5 and corrigenda (E/1987/18 and Corr.1
and 2), chap. 11, sect. A.

191 Ibid., 1988, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/1988/12 and
Corr.1), chap. 11, sect. A.

201 Ibid., ~ Supplement No. 2 (E/19S9/Z0), chap. Il, sect. A.

Il/ Ibid., 1990. Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/1990/22 and
Carr.l), chap. 11, sect. A.

~I Ibid., 1991, Supplement No. 2 (E/1991/22), chap. 11, sect. A.

All Ibid., 1992, Supplement No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. 11, sect. A.

24/ A/47/433.

s

I
!

I • • f

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-------------
A/47/659

English
Page 13

2. Declares its firm opposition to acts of foreign military
intervention, aggression and occupation, since these have resulted in the
suppression of the right of peoples to self-determination and other human
rights in certain parts of the world;

3. Calls upon those States responsible to cease immediately their
military intervention in and occupation of foreign countries and territories
and all acts of repression, discrimination, exploitation and maltreatment,
particularly the brutal and inhuman methods reportedly employed for the
ex~cution of these acts against the peoples concerned;

4. Deplores the plight of the millions of refugees and displaced
persons who have been uprooted as a result of the aforementioned acts, and
reaffirms their right to return to their homes voluntarily in safety and
honour;

5. Reguests the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give special
attention to the violation of human rights, especially the right to
self-determination, resulting from foreign military intervention, aggression
or occupation;

6. Reguests the Secretary-General to report on this issue to the
General Assembly at its forty-eighth session under the item entitled "Right of
peoples to self-determination".

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Use of mercenaries as a means to violate human rights
and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to

self-determination

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 44/34 and the annex thereto of 4 December 1989,
45/132 of 14 December 1990 and 46/89 of 16 December 1991 on the use of
mercenaries as a means to violate human rights and to impede the exercise of
the right of peoples to self-determination,

Reaffirming the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations concerning the strict observance of the principles of sovereign
equality, political independence, territorial integrity of States and
self-determination of peoples,

Urging strict respect for the principle of the non-use or threat of the
use of force in international relations, as developed in the Declaration on
Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation
among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, 251

~I Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Al4116S9
English
Page 14

Reaffirming the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples and their
liberation movements for their independence, territorial integrity, national
unity and liberation from colonial domination, apartheid and foreign
intervention and occupation, and that their legitimate struggle can in no way
be considered as or equated to mercenary activity,

Convinced t~at the use of mercenaries is a threat to international peace
and security,

Deeply cQncern~d about the menace that the activities of mercenaries
represent for all States, particularly African and other developing States,

Profoundly alarmed at the continued international criminal activities of
mercenaries in collusion with drug traffickers,

Recognizing that the activities of mercenaries are contrary to the
fundamental principles of international law, such as non-interference in the
internal affairs of States, territorial integrity and independence. and impede
the process of the self-determination of peoples struggling against
colonialism. racism and apartheid and all forms of foreign domination,

Recalling all of its relevant resolutions, as well as those of the
Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and the Organization of
African Unity, in which, inter alia, it condemned any State that permitted or
tolerated the recruitment, financing, training, assembly, transit and use of
mercenaries with the objective of overthrowing the Governments of States
Members of the United Nations, especially those of developing countries, or of
fighting against national liberation movements,

Deeply concerned about the loss of life, the substantial damage to
property and the short-term and long-term negative effects on the economy of
souther'n African countries resulting from mercenary aggression,

Convinced that it is necessary to develop international cooperation among
States for the prevention, prosecution and punishment of such offences,

Welcoming the adoption of the International Convention against the
Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries, lQl

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Special Rapporteur
of the Commission on Human Rights on the use of mercenaries as a means to
violate human rights and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to
self-determination; £11

lQl Resolution 44/34, annex.

121 A/47/412, annex.

I •..

I
L
f

f
!
1

t
\.
"'"tff

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



_.....-------
A/47/559
English
Page 15

2. Condemns the continued recruitment, financing, training, assembly,
transit and use of mercenaries, as well as all other forms of support to
mercenaries, for the purpose of destabilizing and overthrowing the Governments
of African States and of other developing States and fighting against the
national liberation movements of peoples struggling for the exercise of their
right to self-determination;

3. Reaffirms that the use of mercenaries and thei,r recruitment,
financing and training are offences of grave concern to all States and violate
the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations;

4. Notes with serious concern the use by the Government of South Africa
of groups of armed mercenaries against national liberation movements;

5.
tolerates
launching

Denounces any State that persists in the recruitment, or permits or
the recruitment, of mercenaries and provides facilities to them for
armed aggression against other States;

6. Urges all States to take the necessary steps and to exercise the
utmost vigilance against the menace posed by the activities of mercenaries and
to ensure, by both administrative and legislative measures, that the territory
of those States and other territories under their control, as well as their
nationals, are not used for the recruitment, assembly, financing, training and
transit of mercenaries, or for the planning of activities designed to
destabilize or overthrow the Government of any State and to fight the national
liberation movements struggling against racism, apartheid, colonial domination
and foreign intervention or occupation;

7. Calls upon all States to extend humanitarian assistance to victims
of situations resulting from the use of mercenaries, as well as from colonial
or alien domination or foreign occupation;

8. Reaffirms that to use channels of humanitarian and other assistance
to finance, train and arm mercenaries is inadmissible;

9. Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to consider taking
early action to accede to or to ratify the International Convention against
the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries; 261

10. Requests the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights to
report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session on the use of
mercenaries, especially in view of the additional elements highlighted in his
report. ill

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




