








































UNITED'
I NATIONS

General Assembly

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 82

. i
Distr.
GENERAL

A./471722
~7 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

A
-

EXTERNAL DEBT CRISIS AND DEVELOPMENT

Report of the Second Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. WaIter BALZAN (Malta)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its
agenda the item entitled "External debt crisis and development" and to
allocate it to the Second Committee.

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 19th, 20th, 28th and
51st meetings, on 23 October, 5 November and 16 December 1992. An account of
the Committee's discussion of the item is contained in the relevant summary
records (A/C.2/47/SR.19, 20, 28 and 51). Attention is also drawn to the
general debate held by the Committee at its 3rd to 9th meetings, from 5 to
8 October 1992 (see A/C.2/47/SR.3-9).

3. For the consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on recent experience under the
international debt strategy (A/47/396);

(b) Letter dated 30 January 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Sri Lanka to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the text of the Colombo Declaration issued at the Sixth Meeting
of the Heads of State or Government of the member countries of the South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation, held at Colombo on 21 December 1991
(A/47/82-S/23512);

(c) Letter dated 3 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/83);

92-82744 095lP (E) 181292

201292
/ .. ·

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/722
English
Page 2

(d) Letter dated 22 May 1992 from the representatives of Indonesia and
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the press communique issued at the conclusion of the Ministerial
Meeting of the Coordinating Bureau of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Bali, Indonesia, from 14 to 16 May 1992 (A/47/225-S/23998);

(e) Letter dated 2 July 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Senegal addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the position paper on the new world order prepared by the Summit Level Group
for South-South Consultation and Cooperation (Group of Fifteen) at its meeting
held at Caracas from 27 to 29 November 1991 (A/47/312-S/24238);

(f) Letter dated 21 July 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Trinidad and Tobago to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General transmitting the Communique of the Thirteenth Meeting of
the. Conference of Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community, held at
Port-of-Spain from 29 June to 2 July 1992 (A/47/344);

(g) Letter dated 28 July 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Singapore to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the Joint Communique of the Twenty-Fifth ASEAN Ministerial
Meeting, issued at Manila on 22 July 1992 (A/47/35l-S/24357);

(h) Letter dated 11 August 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Germany to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the final documents of the Munich Economic Summit, held from 6 to 8 July 1992
(A/47/375-S/24429);

(i) Letter dated 2 October 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Pakistan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the declaration of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the member States of
the Group of 77, adopted on 1 October 1992 on the occasion of their sixteenth
annual meeting, held at United Nations Headquarters in New York (A/47/499);

(j) Letter dated 20 October 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Sweden to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the resolutions adopted by the 88th Conference of the Inter-Parliamentary
Union, held at Stockholm from 4 to 12 September 1992 (A/47/569).

4. At the 19th meeting, on 23 October 1992, the Under-Secretary-General for
Economic and Social Development made an introductory statement (see
A/C.2/47/SR.19).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft decision A/C.2/47/L.4

5. By its decision 46/433 of 18 December 1991, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the Second Committee, decided to defer until its

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A./47/722
English
Page 3

forty-seventh session consideration of the draft decision entitled
"Establishment of an advisory commission on debt and development" (see
A/C.2/47/L.4). The draft decision read as follows:

"The General Assembly decides:

"(a) To establish, under the aegis of the Secretary-General, an
advisory commission on debt and development composed of eminent persons
from the academic, political and financial sectors with knowledge and
experience in international finance, trade and development, to develop
innovative approaches and evolve specific proposals related to all types
of debt in order to solve the debt problem of developing countries in a
manner consistent with their sustained growth and development. Debtor
and creditor interests shall be represented in the membership of the
commission, which shall take into account the need for appropriate
geographical representation and regional balance. The commission shall
take into consideration the various existing studies and recommendations
on the subject, including the views of the Secretary-General set out in
his report entitled 'Towards a durable solution of the debt problem' 1/
and those expressed by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development in the Trade and Development Report, 1988. 1/ The commission
shall be established for at least three years and shall submit annual
reports to the General Assembly;

"(b) To request the Secretary-General to appoint the members of the
commission and organize support staff from within the United Nations and,
through secondment or other appropriate means, from relevant
intergovernmental organizations and bodies of the United Nations system,
and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session on the
implementation of the present decision."

6. At its 50th meeting, on 11 December, the Committee decided not to take
action on the draft decision contained in document A/C.2/47/L.4.

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.16 and Rev.l

7. At the 28th meeting, on 5 November, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.16) entitled "Enhanced
international cooperation towards a durable solution to the external debt
crisis of developing countries", which read as follows:

~/ A/43/647 and Corr.l.

~/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.88.II.D.8.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/722
English "
Page 4

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming its resolutions 41/202 of 8 December 1986, 421198 of
11 December 1987, 43/198 of 20 December 1988, 44/205 of 22 December 1989,
45/214 of 21 December 1990 and 46/148 of 18 December 1991,

"Reaffirming also the Declaration on International Economic
Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and I
Development of the Developing Countries, contained in the annex to its I
resolution S-18/3 of 1 May 1990, the International Development Strategy I
for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade, contained in the annex J..
to its resolution 45/199 of 21 December 1990, the United Nations Newl
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, contained in the annex ',1;.•1',
to its resolution 46/151 of 8 December 1991, the Programme of Action for '
the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, adopted by the Second United
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries II and the provisions
for a durable solution to the external debt crisis, contained in the
relevant chapters of Agenda 21, adopted by the United Nations Conference
on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 3 to
14 June 1992, i/

"Noting the uneven developments towards the solution of the external
debt problem of developing countries,

"Noting also that only indebted developing countries have regained
relative access to international financial markets but that, even for
these countries borrowing entails high costs, including high interest
premiums,

"Noting with concern the continuing debt and debt-service problems
of the middle-income developing countries, which adversely affect their
development efforts and economic growth, and reiterating the need to
address the continuing debt problem of those countries through effective
debt-relief measures, bearing in mind, in this context, the lack of
adequate debt-relief measures, in particular for the middle-income
African countries,

"Noting also with concern the continuing existence of the heavy debt
and debt-service burden of low-income countries, despite current measures,

"Noting further the recent initiatives towards the solution of the
debt problem of developing countries, especially the adoption by the
Paris Club of the enhanced Toronto terms and the conclusion of several
agreements on commercial debt and debt-service reduction,

~I See Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, Paris, 3-14 September 1990 (A/CONF.147/l8), part one.

i/ See A/CONF.l51/26 (vols. I, 11 and Corr.!, and Ill).

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471722
English
Page 5

"Noting the substantial debt relief and debt reduction agreed to by
the Paris Club in favour of two middle-income countries and recognizing
the need to, extend similar debt reduction to low-income and other
middle-income countries,

"Stressing, however, that the impact of the debt-relief measures may
be temporary in the absence of a supportive international economic
environment, including an open and transparent multilateral trading
system,

"Recognizing the continued efforts of debtor developing countries to
implement stabilization and structural adjustment programmes to raise
savings and investment, reduce inflation and improve economic efficiency,
taking into account the vulnerability of the poorer strata of their
populations,

"Expressing its concern that, in many developing countries, the
burden of debt and debt service constitutes one of the major obstacles to
the revitalization of growth and development, despite the often strenuous
economic reforms of those countries,

"Noting that the close association between the debt crisis and
virtual economic stagnation in the majority of developing countries calls
for additional measures to ensure that all developing countries can
rapidly reach a durable solution to their external debt problem,

"Noting also that developing countries have continued to meet their
international debt and debt-service obligations in a timely fashion,
despite severe external financial constraints and at the great cost of
adequate basic services to their peoples,

"1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General concerning
the external debt crisis and development; ~/

"2. Welcomes the conclusion of several arrangements on debt and
debt-service reduction and the call made at the Munich Economic Summit by
the seven major industrialized nations for debt-relief measures in favour
of the lower-middle-income severely indebted countries; §/

"3. Also welcomes the write-off of part of the bilateral official
debt by certain donors to the least developed countries, and calls for
further significant action, in particular th~ need for sustained and
comprehensive action to deal with the external indebtedness of those
countries;

.5./ A/47/396.

~/ See A/47/375-S/24429.

/ ...

,. "
~

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471722
English
Page 6

"4. Expresses its appreciation for the recent measures announced by
the Government of France to address the debt problem of some
middle-income African developing countries, encourages their application
and invites all creditors to take similar measures for all debtor
developing countries;

"5. Notes with concern the accumulation of arrears towards the
multilateral financial institutions, as well as the absence of any formal
mechanism to restructure the multilateral debt of the developing
countries;

"6. Stresses that the tax, regulatory and accounting practices in
the industrialized countries continue to pose unnecessary obstacles to
the access of debtor countries to new loans and continue to increase
unduly the cost of those loans;

"7. Also stresses the need for additional debt-relief measures,
including further cancellation or reduction of debt and debt service
related to official and commercial debts;

"8. Further stresses the need for the broadest and most expeditious
implementation of the recent initiatives in debt and debt-service
reduction and the need to build upon them;

"9. Stresses the need to strengthen and broaden the debt-relief
approaches to cover all types of debt and debtor countries and to include
anticipatory measures to prevent the proliferation of the debt problem;

"ID. Recognizes the need for international support for the efforts
of debtor developing countries to continue to provi~e adequate social
safety nets to vulnerable groups most adversely affected by the
implementation of economic reform programmes in the debtor countries;

"11. Emphasizes the importance of international community support to
developing countries in their efforts to achieve economic reform in order
to raise savings and investment, reduce inflation and improve economic
efficiency, taking into account the vulnerability of the poorer strata of
their populations;

"12. Recognizes the need of debtor developing countries for a
supportive international economic environment as regards, inter alia,
terms of trade, commodity prices, improved market access and trade
practices and, in this connection, stresses the urgent need for a
balanced and successful outcome of the Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade negotiations, which would result in the liberalization and
expansion of world trade to the benefit of all countries, in particular
the developing countries;

I .•.

I
I
I
I
t

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



~-_..._---------------_.-

A/47f722
English
Page 7

"13. Reiterates the need for a coordinated approach involving debtor
developing countries, creditor developed countries, commercial banks and
multilateral financial institutions, with a view to reducing the debt and
debt service of developing countries far beyond the scope of the current
terms, which would allow recovery, growth and development in developing
countries;

"14. Emphasizes the need to provide substantial concessional and
non-debt resources to developing countries, with a view to promoting the
revival of their economic growth and sustained development;

"IS. Calls upon creditor Governments and multilateral financial
institutions to take duly into account that while debt-relief measures

. are needed to reduce the debt burden, fresh financial resources are also
needed to increase the rate of investment and to accelerate the economic
growth of developing countries;

"16.~ the international community to consider wider application
of innovative measures, such as debt-for-equity swaps, debt swaps for the
protection of nature and debt-for-development swaps;

"17. Stresses the need for sustained action in addressing the deht
problem of low-income countries and, in this regard, calls for early,
expeditious and wide implementation of the enhanced Toronto terms, as
well as for their urgent improvement, in order to address fully the
continuing debt problem of those countries:

"18. Calls ypon creditors to renew and expand initiatives and
e~forts in order to tackle the problems of the increasing commercial debt
burden of low- and middle-income countries;

"19. Urges countries that have not yet responded to Trade and
Development Board resolution 165 (S-IX) of 11 March 1978 1/ by cancelling
or providing equivalent relief for the official development assistance
debt of the least developed countries, to do so on a prlority basis;

"20.~ creditor countries, private banks and multilateral
financial institutions to consider the extension of new financial support
to developing countries that have substantial debt burdens and that
continue to service their debt and meet their international obligations;

"21. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session on the implementation of the present
resolution."

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly. Thirty-third Session,
Supplement No. 15 (A/33/l5), vol. I and corrigendum, annex I.

I . ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471722
English
Page 8

8. At the 51st meeting, on 16 December 1992, the Vice-Chairman of the
Committee, Mr. Jose Lino Guerrero (Philippines), informed the Committee of the
results of the informal consultations held on the draft resolution and drew
the Committee's attention to a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.16/Rev.1),
submitted by the sponsor of draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.16, and orally revised
it as follows:

(a) In operative paragraph 6, insert the word "the" in the fourth line
after the word "to";

"burdens" •

9. Before the adoption of the revised draft resolution, the representative
of France made corrections to the French text (see A/C.2/47/SR.51).

10. At its 51st meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/47/L.16/Rev.1, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 109 to 1 (see
para. 12). The voting was as follows: ~I

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussa1am, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya~ Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia,
Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

(b)

Against:

In operative paragraph 10, in the fourth line, for "burden" read

United States of America.

I,

I
I
I

I
t

~I The representative of Chile, Ecuador, Mexico and Nicaragua indicated
that, had they been present at the time of the voting, they would have voted
in favour.

/ ....
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471722
English
Page 9

11. At the same meeting, in the light of the adoption of the draft resolution
A/C.2/47/L.16/Rev.l, draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.16 was withdrawn by its
sponsor.

Ill. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

12. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

International debt cr1S1S and development:
international cooperation towards a durable
to the external debt problems of developing

The General Assembly,

enhanced
solution
countries

Recalling its resolutions 41/202 of 8 December 1986, 42/198 of
11 December 1987, 43/198 of 20 December 1988, 44/205 of 22 December 1989,
45/214 of 21 December 1990 and 46/148 of 18 December 1991,

Reaffirming the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in
particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Countries, contained in the annex to its resolution S-18/3 of
1 May 1990, the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United
Nations Development Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 45/199 of
21 December 1990, the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries
for the 1990s, adopted by the Second United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, ~I the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s, contained in the annex to its resolution 46/151 of
8 December 1991, the Cartagena Commitment: A New Partnership for Development,
adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its
eighth session, and the provisions on a durable solution to the external debt
crisis, contained in the relevant chapters of Agenda 21, adopted by the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, from 3 to 14 June 1992, lQI

Noting that owing to uneven developments, further progress is needed
towards the solution of the external debt problems of a large number of
developing countries, in the context of the evolving international debt
strategy,

21 See Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, Paris, 3-14 September 1990 (A/CONF.147/18), part one.

101 See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.15l/26, vols. I, 11 and
Corr.l, and Ill).

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



'A./471722
English
Page 10

Noting also that a few indebted developing countries have regained
relative access to international financial markets under the difficulties
described in the report of the Secretary-General, 111

Noting with concern the continuing debt and debt-service problems of
lower-middle-income developing countries, which adversely affect their
development efforts and economic growth, and reiterating the need to address
the continuing debt problems of those countries through effective debt-relief
measures, bearing in mind, in this context, the special situation of
lower-middle-income and certain middle-income African countries,

Noting also with concern the continuing existence of the heavy debt and
debt-service burden of low~income countries,

Noting with appreciation the recent initiatives towards the solution of
the. debt problems of some developing countries, inter alia, the adoption by
the Paris Club of the "enhanced terms" ill and the conclusion of several
agreements on commercial debt and debt-service reduction,

Noting the substantial debt relief and debt reduction agreed to by the
Paris Club in favour of two middle-income countries,

Stressing the importance of alleviating the debt and debt-service burdens
of low- and middle-income developing countries with public debt problems,

Stressing also, in this context, the necessity of a supportive
international economic environment, including an open and transparent
multilateral trading system,

Emphasizing the importance for debtor developing countries to continue to
pursue and intensify their efforts in their ecqnomic reforms, stabilization
and structural adjustment programmes, to raise savings and investment, reduce
inflation and improve economic efficiency, taking into account their
individual characteristics and the vulnerability of the poorer strata of their
populations,

Expressing its concern that, in many developing countries, the burden of
debt and debt service constitutes one of the major obstacles to the
revitalization of growth and development, despite the often strenuous economic
reforms of those countries,

111 A/47/396.

121 The "enhanced terms" are the terms offered by the Paris Club for the
poorest, most indebted develo~ing countries.

/ ...

J
l

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/411722
English
Page 11

Noting that those developing countries which have continued, at great
cost, to meet their international debt and debt-service obligations in a
timely fashion have done so despite severe external and domestic financial
constraints,

1. Takes note of the report of the SecretarY-General concerning the
external debt crisis and development; III

2. Welcomes the conclusion of several agreements on commercial bank
debt and debt-service reduction under the evolving international debt strategy
and takes note of relevant declarations recognizing the debt problems of some
highly indebted lower-middle-income countries, taking into account their
special and specific situations; 131

3. Also welcomes the write-off of a significant part of the bilateral
official debt by certain donors to the least developed countries, and urges
the countries that have not done so to cancel or provide equivalent relief for
the official development assistance debt of the least developed countries;

4. Expresses its appreciation for the initiatives taken by developed
countries, inclUding recent initiatives to address the debt problems of some
middle-income African countries, encourages their application and invites all
creditor countries to consider taking relevant measures for middle-income
debtor developing countries;

5. Stresses the need for the broadest and the most expeditious
implementation of the recent initiatives and for continuing to build upon
them, inter alia, in order to prevent the proliferation of debt problems;

6. Also stresses the need for the implementation of additional
debt-relief measures, inclUding further cancellation or reduction of debt and
debt service related to official debt, and for more urgent action with regard
to the remaining commercial debt owed by developing countries;

7. Recognizes the urgent need to continue to provide a social safety
net to vulnerable groups most adversely affected by the implementation of
economic reform programmes in the debtor countries, in partiCUlar low-income
groups, in order to ensure social and political stability;

8.
efforts
thereby

Emphasizes the importance for developing countries to continue their
to promote a favourable environment for attracting foreign investment,
promoting economic growth and sustainable .levelopment;

9. Recognizes the need of debtor developing countries for a supportive
international economic environment as Legards, in~er alia, terms of trade,
commodity prices, improved market accesS and trade practices, and, in this

131 See A/47/375-S/24429.

/ ." "
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



•

,I

: 1

A/47/722
English
Page 12

connection, stresses the urgent need for a balanced and successful outcome of
the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, which would result in
the liberalization and expansion of world trade to the benefit of all
countries, in particular the developing countries;

10. Reiterates the need for the implementation of initiatives involving
developing debtor countries, developed creditor countries, commercial banks
and multilateral financial institutions, with a view to easing the debt and
debt-service burdens of severely indebted developing countries, which would
contribute to recovery, growth and development in developing countries;

11. Stresses the need, in addition to debt-relief measures that include
debt and debt-service reduction, for new financial flows to debtor developing
countries, and urges the creditor countries and the multilateral financial
institutions to continue to extend concessional financial assistance, as
appropriate, in order to support the implementatio~ by the developing
countries of their economic reforms, stabilization and structural adjustment
programmes so as to enable them to extricate themselves from the debt overhang
and to assist them in achieving economi~ growth and development;

12. Urges the international community to consider wider application of
innovative measures, such as debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-nature swaps and
debt-for-development swaps;

13. Stresses the need for sustained action in addressing the debt
problems of low-income countries and, in this regard, calls for early,
expeditious and wide implementation of the enhanced terms currently offered to
low-income countries by the Paris Club, as well as, where necessary, their
extension;

14. Calls upon private creditors to renew and expand initiatives and
efforts in order to tackle the commercial debt problems of low- and
middle-income developing countries;

15. Urges creditor countries, private banks and, within their
prerogatives, multilateral financial institutions to consider the extension of
appropriate new financial support to developing countries, in particular the
low-income countries with substantial debt burdens that continue, at great
cost, to service the debt and meet their international obligations;

16. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-aighth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




