








































-
UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly

UtC

Distr.
GENERAL

A/47/684
1 December 1992

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 54

C()L1E;(TK)I\~ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

COMPREHENSIVE NUCLEAR-TEST-BAN TREATY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty" was included in
the provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly in
accordance with its resolution 46/29 of 6 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 6B and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.1/47/PV.3-2l). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.31-40).

4. In connection with item 54, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; ~I

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27).

92-76612 0876P (E) 031292 071292 I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/684
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 28 January 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/47/77-S/23486 and Corr.l);

Cc) Letter dated 29 January 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary~General (A/47/79-S/23494).

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/47/L.37

5. On 30 October, Afghanistan, Albania, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, the
Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Boliyia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti,
Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Malaysia, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, the Philippines, Poland. the Republic of Korea, Samoa,
Singapore. Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela and Zimbabwe submitted a draft
resolution, entitled "Comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty" (A/C.1I47/L.37),
which was later also sponsored by Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Botswana,
BUlgaria, Cape Verde, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Egypt, Germany, Guyana, Honduras,
Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malta, the Netherlands, Paraguay, Portugal, the Russian
Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sloyenia, Spain, Suriname, the
United RepUblic of Tanzania, Viet Naro, Zaire and Zambia. The draft resolution
was introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 24th meeting, on
3 November.

6. At the 33rd meeting, on 13 November, on behalf of the sponsors, the
representative of Mexico orally revised draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.37, as
follows: the eleventh preambular paragraph, which had read:

"Noting the concerns expressed about the environmental and health
risks associated with underground nuclear testing, as brought out in the
Expert Study on Questions Related to a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in
CD/1167 of 14 August 1992, and, in this context, welcoming the statement
of the Russian Federation, when announcing its nuclear-testing moratorium
decision on 26 October 1991, which noted, inter alia, the environmental
benefits and economic savings to be derived"

was revised to read:

"Noting the concerns expressed about the environmental and health
risks associated with underground nuclear testing, as brought out in the
Expert Study on Questions Related to a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in
CD/1167 of 14 August 1992, which noted, inter alia, the environmental
benefits and economic savings to be derived from a complete ban on
nuclear testing".

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/684
English
Page 3

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/47/L.37, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 136 to 1, with
4 abstentions (see para. 8). The voting was as follows:

I

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People'S
Republic of Korea, "Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: China, France, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

III. RECOMME~DATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty

The General Assembly,

Recalling previous resolutions that identify the complete cessation of
nUClear-weapon tests and a comprehensive test ban as one of the priority
objectives in the field of disarmament,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/684
English
Page 4

Convinced that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought,

Welcoming the improved relationship between the Russian Federation and
the United States of America and their consequent announcements of significant
measures, including unilateral steps, which could signal the reversal of the
nuclear-arms race,

Welcoming also the Treaty between the United States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Reduction and Limitation of
Strategic Offensive ~rms, signed on 31 July 1991, and the signing of a
protocol to this Treaty in which Be1arus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation,
Ukraine and the United States of America undertake to give effect to the
Treaty,

Welcoming further the Joint Understanding of 17 June 1992 between the
Russian Federation and the United States of America on further reductions in
their strategic offensive arms,

Welcoming the decision taken by France to suspend its testing of nuclear
weapons for 1992,

Endorsing the call made by France and by the Russian Federation on the
other nuclear Powers to suspend their nuclear tests,

Welcoming in addition the recent decision of the United States of America
to implement a testing moratorium accompanied by a plan for achieving a
multilateral, comprehensive ban on the testing of nuclear weapons,

We1cgming also the decision of the Russian Federation to extend its
earlier announced nuclear-testing moratorium,

Convinced that an end to nuclear testing by all States in all
environments for all time is an essential step in order to prevent the
qualitative improvement and development of nuclear weapons and their further
proliferation and to contribute, along with other concurrent efforts to reduce
nuclear arms, to the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons,

Noting the concerns expressed about the environmental and health risks
associated with underground nuclear testing, as brought out in the Expert
Study on Questions Related to a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in CD/1167 of
14 August 1992, which noted, inter alia, the environmental benefits and
economic savings to be derived from a complete ban on nuclear testing,

Convinced also that the most effective way to achieve an end to nuclear
testing is through the conclusion, at an early date, of a verifiable,
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty that will attract the adherence of all
States,

Taking into account the undertakings by the original parties to the
1963 Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



r
I

•

A/47/684
English
Page 5

and under Water ~/ to seek to achieve the early discontinuance of all test
explosions of nuclear weapons for all time, and also noting the reiteration of
this commitment in the 1968 Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons, J./

Noting with satisfaction the work being undertaken within the Conference
on Disarmament by the Ad Hoc Group of Scientific Experts to Consider
International Cooperative Measures to Detect and Identify Seismic Events, and,
in this context, welcoming the results of the second technical test concerning
the global exchange and analysis of seismic data, which will permit the system
to be redesigned in the light of this experience,

Recalling that the Amendment Conference of States Parties to the Treaty
Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water
was held in New York from 7 to 18 January 1991,

Expressing its disappointment that the Conference on Disarmament waS
unable to re-establish the Ad Hoc Committee on item 1 of its agenda, entitled
"Nuclear test ban", despite the improved political climate,

1. Reaffirms its conviction that a treaty to achieve the prohibition of
all nuclear-test explosions by all States in all environments for all time is
a matter of priority, which would constitute an essential step in order to
prevent the qualitative improvement and development of nuclear weapons and
their further proliferation, and which would contribute to the process of
nuclear disarmament;

2. ~' therefore, all States to seek to achieve the early
discontinuance of all nuclear-test explosions for all time;

3. ~:

(~) The nuclear-weapon States to agree promptly to appropriate
verifiable and militarily significant interim measures, with a view to
concluding a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty;

{Q} Those nuclear-weapon States which have not yet done so to adhere to
the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and
under Water;

4. Reaffirms the particular responsibilities of the Conference on
Disarmament in the negotiation of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty,
and, in this context, urges the re-establishment of the Ad Hoc Committee on a
Nuclear Test Ban in 1993;

£/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480, No. 6964.

1/ Ibid., vol. 729, No. 10485.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/684
English
Page 6

5. Requests the Conference on Disarmament, in this context, to
intensify its substantive work begun in 1990 on specific and interrelated
test-ban issues, including structure and scope and verification and
compliance, taking also into account all relevant proposals and future
initiatives;

6. Urges the Conference on Disarmament:

(~) To take into account the progress achieved by the Ad Hoc Group of
Scientific Experts to Consider International Cooperative Measures to Detect
and Identify Seismic Events, including the experience gained from the
technical test concerning the global exchange and analysis of seismic data,
and other relevant initiatives;

(~) To continue efforts to establish, with the widest possible
participation, an international seismic monitoring network with a view to
developing further a system for the effective monitoring and verification of
compliance with a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty;

(~) To investigate other measures to monitor and verify compliance with
such a treaty, including on-site inspections, satellite monitoring and an
international network to monitor atmospheric radioactivity;

7. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session on progress made, including its
recommendations on how the objectives of the Ad Hoc Committee on agenda
item 1, entitled "Nuclear test ban", should be carried forward most
effectively towards achieving a comprehensive test-ban treaty;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty".

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




