








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENE~AL

A/47/688
1 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLIS~

A

I
Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 58

P~EVENTION OF AN ARMS ~ACE IN OUTER SPACE

Report of the First Committee

~apporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Prevention of ~n arms race in outer space" was
included in the provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly in accordance with its resolution 46/33 of 6 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.1/47/PV.3-21). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.31-40). .

4. In connection with item 58, tpe First Committee had before it the
following doc.urnents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; ~I

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27).

92-76457 0878P (E) 031292 061292 I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/688
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 28 April 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Argentina to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/181).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/47/L.34

5. On 30 October, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Canada, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Egypt, Ethiopia, France, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, the Lao People's Democratic
RepUblic, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sweden,
Ukraine, Venezuela and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution, entitled
"Prevention of an arms race in outer space" (A/C.l/47/L.34), which was later
also sponsored by the Democratic People'S RepUblic of Korea, Denmark, Myanmar
and Turkey. The draft resolution was introduced by the repre'sentative of
Venezuela at the 24th meeting, on 3 November.

6. At its 35th meeting, on 17 November, the Committee voted on draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.34 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 8 was adopted by a recorded vote of 130 to I,
with 4 abstentions. The voting was as follows: ~/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RepUblic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jromaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,

~/ Subsequently, the delegation of Saudi Arabia indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of operative paragraph 8.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/688
English
Page 3

Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Israel, Japan, Micronesia (Federated States of), United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.34, as a whole, was adopted by a
recorded vote of 133 to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 7). The voting
was as follows: 11

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peopleis Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa,· Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Toga,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Micronesia (Federated States of), United States of America.

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Saudi Arabia indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution as a whole.

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/688
English
Page 4

Ill. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

1. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Prevention of an arms race in outer space

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the common interest of all mankind in the exploration and use
of outer space for peaceful purposes,

Reaffirming the will of all States that the exploration and use of outer
space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, shall be for peaceful
purposes, shall be carried out for the benefit and in the interest of all
countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or scientific development,
and shall be the province of all mankind,

Reaffirming also provisions of articles III and IV of the Treaty on
Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of
Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, i/

Recalling the obligation of all States to observe the provisions of the
Charter of the United Nations regarding the use or threat of use of force in
their international relations, including in their space activities,

Reaffirming paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, ~/ in which it is stated that in order to
prevent an arms race in outer space further measures should be taken and
appropriate international negotiations held in accordance with the spirit of l
the Treaty,

Recalling its previous resolutions on this issue and the Final
Declaration adopted by the Tenth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to 6 September 1992, ~/ and
taking note of the proposals submitted to the General Assembly at its tenth
special session and at its regular sessions, and of the recommendations made
to the competent organs of the United Nations and to the Conference on
Disarmament,

i/ Resolution 2222 (XXI), annex.

~/ Resolution S-10/2.

~/ See A/47/675-S/24816, annex.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-
A/47/688
English
Page 5

Recognizing the grave danger for international peace and security of an
arms race in outer space and of developments contributing to it,

Emphasizing the paramount importance of strict compliance with existing
arms limitation and disarmament agreements relevant to outer space, including
bilateral agreements, and with the existing legal regime concerning the use of
outer space,

Considering that wide participation in the legal regime applicable to
outer space could contribute to enhancing its effectiveness,

Noting that bilateral negotiations, begun in 1985 between the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America, have continued
with the declared objective of working out effective agreements aimed,
inter alia, at preventing an arms race in outer space,

Welcoming the re-establishment of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Prevention
of an Arms Race in Outer Space at the 1992 session of the Conference on
Disarmament, in the exercise of the negotiating responsibilities of this sole
multilateral body on disarmament, to continue to examine and identify, through
substantive and general consideration, issues relevant to the prevention of an
arms race in outer space,

Noting that the Ad Hoc Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race in
Outer Space, taking into account its previous efforts since its establishment
in 1985 and seeking to enhance its functioning in qualitative terms, continued
the examination and identification of various issues, existing agreements and
existing proposals, as well as future initiatives relevant to the prevention
of an arms race in outer space, 1/ and that this contributed to a better
understanding of a number of problems and to a clearer perception of the
various positions,

Emphasizing the mutually complementary nature of bilateral and
multilateral efforts in the field of preventing an arms race in outer space,
and hoping that concrete results will emerge from these efforts as soon as
possible,

Convinced that further measures should be examined in the search for
effective and verifiable bilateral and multilateral agreements in order to
prevent an arms race in outer space,

Stressing that the growing use of outer space increases the need for
greater transparency and better information on the part of the international
community,

7/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), para. 76.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/688
English
Page 6

Recalling in this context its resolution 45/55 B of 4 December 1990
which, inter alia, reaffirmed the importance of confidence-building measures
as means conducive to ensuring the attainment of the objective of the
prevention of an arms race in outer space,

Conscious of the benefits of confidence- and security-building measures
in the military field,

1. Reaffirms the importance and urgency of preventing an arms race in
outer space and the readiness of all States to contribute to that common
objective, in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty on Principles
Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space,
including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies; ~/

2. Reaffirms its recognition, as stated in the report of the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space, that the legal
regime applicable to outer space by itself does not guarantee the prevention
of an arms race in outer space, that this legal regime plays a significant
role in the prevention of an arms race in that environment, that there is a
need to consolidate and reinforce that regime and enhance its effectiveness,
and that it is important strictly to comply with existing agreements, both
bilateral and multilateral; ~/

3. Emphasi2es the necessity of further measures with appropriate and
effective provisions for verification to prevent an arms race in outer space;

4. Calls upon all States, in particular those with major space
capabilities, to contribute actively to the objective of the peaceful use of
outer space and of the prevention of an arms race in outer space and to
refrain from actions contrary to that objective and to the relevant existing
treaties in the interest of maintaining international peace and security and
promoting international cooperation;

5. Reiterates that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, has the primary role in the
negotiation of a multilateral agreement or agreements, as appropriate, on the
prevention of an arms race in outer space in all its aspects;

6. Reguests the Conference on Disarmament to consider as a matter of
priority the question of preventing an arms race in outer space;

7. Also reguests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify its
consideration of the question of the prevention of an arms race in outer space
in all its aspects, building upon areas of convergence and taking into account
relevant proposals and initiatives, including those presented in the Ad Hoc
Committee at the 1992 session of the Conference and at the forty-seventh
session of the General Assembly;

~/ Ibid., para. 30 of the quoted text.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/688
English
Page 7

8. Further requests the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish an
ad hoc committee with an adequate mandate at the beginning of its 1993 session
and to continue building upon areas of convergence with a view to undertaking
negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement or agreements, as appropriate,
to prevent an arms race in outer space in all its aspects;

9. Recognizes, in this respect, the growing convergence of views on the
elaboration of measures designed to strengthen transparency, confidence and
security in the uses of outer space;

10. ~ the Russian Federation and the United States of America to
pursue intensively their bilateral negotiations in a constructive spirit with
a view to reaching early agreement for preventing an arms race in outer space,
and to advise the Conference on Disarmament periodically of the progress of
their bilateral sessions so as to facilitate its work;

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Prevention of an arms race in outer space".

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




