








































UNITED
NATIONS

A

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/47/693
4 December 1992

LJtl 1. U'1992

,~\ ~/' ~~~; ~-'\ d ,~I )1 ~ l:j ll".,,~ r,'
11'~ ~.,I v~" "''"'~~; L.•• "~p",, i",i

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 63

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

-

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND
DECISIONS ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS TENTH

SPECIAL SESSION

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

"(a) Report of the Disarmament Comission;

"(b) Report of the Conference on Disarmament;

"(c) Status of multilateral disarmament agreements;

"(d) Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters;

"(e) United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research;

"(f) Disarmament Week;

"(g) Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures;

"(h) Comprehensive programme of disarmament;

"(i) Transfer of high technology wi th military applications"

92-77596 OS91P (E) 081292 I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



£
I
~

A/47/693
English
Page 2

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-s~venth session of the
General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 36/92 H of
9 December 1981, 38/183 0 of 20 December 1983, 39/148 H of 17 December 1984,
44/119 G of 15 December 1989, 45/62 F and G of 4 December 1990 and 46/38 A
to D of 6 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.l/47/PV.3-21). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.31-40).

4. In connection with item 63, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; £/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on Disarmament Week (A/47/321);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Matters (A/47/354)i

Note by the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (A/47/345);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on transfer of high technology with
military applications (A/47/371 and Add.l and 2);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on implementation of the guidelines
for appropriate types of confidence-building measures (A/47/417);

(9) Report of the Secretary-General on the status of multilateral
disarmament agreements (A/47/470 and Corr.l);

( h)

Matters:

~/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27).

£/ Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42).

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



11./47/693
English
Page 3

(i) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the United
Nations Institute for Disarmament Research entitled "Economic aspects of
disarmament: disarmament as an investment process" (A/47/346);

(j) Letter dated 28 January 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/77-S/23486 and Corr.l);

(k) Letter dated 29 January 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/47/79-S/2349~);

(1) Letter dated 4 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Portugal to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (11./47/85);

(m) Report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on the occasion of Disarmament Week,
27 October 1992, entitled "New dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament
in the post-cold war era" (A/C.l/47/7).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.4 and proposed amendments
contained in document A/C.l/47/L.48

5. On 27 October, Brazil, Cameroon, Egypt, Finland, Hungary, India,
Malaysia, Nepal, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Peru, Romania, Sweden and Uruguay
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report of the Disarmament Commission"
(A/C.1/47/L.4), which was later also sponsored by Armenia. The draft
resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Having considered the annual report of the Disarmament
Commission, ~/

"Considering the role that the Disarmament Commission has been
called upon to play and the contribution that it should make in examining
and submitting recommendations on various problems in the field of
disarmament and in the promotion of the implementation of the relevant
decisions of the tenth special session,

"Recalling its resolution 46/38 A of 6 December 1991,

"1. Takes note of the annual report of the Disarmament
Commission; ~/

~/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42).

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 4

"2. Commends the Disarmament Commission for its adoption, by
consensus of a set of guidelines and recommendations for objective
information on military matters, which were recommended to the General
Assembly for consideration, pursuant to the adopted 'Ways and means to
enhance the functioning of the Disarmament Commission'; ~/

"3. Notes with satisfaction that the Disarmament Commission has
successfully implemented its reform programme and has made considerable
progress on other substantive items on its agenda;

"4. Recalls the role of the Disarmament Commission as the
specialized, deliberative body within the United Nations multilateral
disarmament machinery that allows for in-depth deliberations on specific
disarmament issues, leading to the submission of concrete recommendations
on those issues;

"5. Requests the Disarmament Commission to continue its work in
accordance with its mandate, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, ~/ and
with paragraph 3 of resolution 37/78 H of 9 December 1982, and to that
end to make every effort to achieve specific recommendations on the items
on its agenda, taking into account the adopted 'Ways and means to enhance
the functioning of the Disarmament Commission';

"6. Stresses the importance for the Disarmament Commission to work
on the basis of a relevant agenda of disarmament topics, thereby enabling
the Commission to concentrate its efforts and thus optimize its progress
on specific subjects in accordance with resolution 37/78 H;

"7. Recommends that the Disarmament Commission, at its 1992
organizational session, adopt the following items for consideration at
its 1993 substantive session:

" (1) [To be decided];

"(2) Process of nuclear disarmament in the framework of
international peace and security, with the objective of the
elimination of nuclear weapons;

11 (3) Regional approach to disarmament within the context of global
security;

"( 4) The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields;

~/ A/CN.lO/137 of 27 April 1990.

2/ Resolution 5-10/2.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Al47/693
English
Page 5

"B. Also requests the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period
not exceeding four weeks during 1993 and to submit a substantive report
to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;

"9. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament
Commission the annual report of the Conference on Disarmament, Q/
together with all the official records of the forty-seventh session of
the General Assembly relating to disarmament matters, and to render all
assistance that the Commission may require for implementing the present
resolution;

"10. Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure full provision to
the Commission and its subsidiary bodies of interpretation and
translation facilities in the official languages, and to assign, as a
matter of priority, all the necessary resources and services to this end;

"11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its
forty-eighth session the item entitled 'Report of the Disarmament
Commission'."

6. On 13 November, Australia, Austria, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, France. Guatemala. Indonesia, Italy, New Zealand,
Norway, Panama, the Philippines and Spain submitted amendments to draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.4 (A/C.1/47/L.48), which was later also sponsored by
Bulgaria, Ireland, Mauritius. Mongolia, Nicaragua and Portugal.

7. At the 37th meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Canada orally
revised the amendments (A/C.1/47/L.4B), as follows:

(a) New third, fourth and fifth preambular paragraphs were added, which
read as follows:

"Noting the support for the proposal to include a new item in the
agenda of the 1993 substantive session of the Disarmament Commission,
entitled 'General guidelines for non-proliferation, with special emphasis
on weapons of mass destruction',

"Noting the support for consideration of the inclusion of a new item
in the agenda of the 1994 susbstantive session of the Disarmament
Commission, entitled 'International arms transfer, with particular
reference to resolution 46/36 H of 6 December 1991',

"Recognizing the need to further improve the effective functioning
of the United Nations Disarmament Commission, and bearing in mind the
experience of the 1992 substantive session when the agenda item on
objective information on military matters was successfully concluded,";

Q/ Official Records of the General Assembly. Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (Al47127).

1 •.•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



11./47/693
English
Page 6

(b) In the amended operative paragraph 7, subparagraph (4), which had

read:

"(4) General guidelines for non-proliferation, with special emphasis
on weapons of mass destruction",

was deleted;

(c) The new operative paragraph 8, which had read:

"8. Recommends that the Disarmament Commission, at its 1993
organizational session, consider including the issue of international
arms transfer, with particular reference to resolution 46/36 H of
6 December 1991, in the agenda of its substantive session in 1994",

was revised to read as follows:

"8. Requests that the Disarmament Commission, at the aforementioned
organizational meeting, consider the following matters:

"(1) The objective of moving the agenda of the Disarmament
Commission to a three-item phased approach with one item in the
first year of consideration, one item in its middle year and
one item in its concluding year, with the result that, in
principle, one item is added and one item is concluded,
respectively, at each substantive session;

"(2) That, in furtherance of the foregoing, the 1993 substantive
session should be considered as a transitional year and
therefore should consider whether:

"( i) Two items on the current agenda, namely those items
referred to in operative paragraph 7 (2) and (3)
respectively, should be concluded;

"(ii) One item, namely, that referred to in operative
paragraph 7 (1), should be held over for conclusion at
the next substantive session in 1994; and

"(iii) One new item should be included in the substantive
agenda" ;

(d) The new operative paragraph 9, which had read:

"9. Also recommends that the Disarmament Commission, at its 1993
substantive session, endeavour to conclude its consideration of items 2
and 3 and that the consideration of item 1 be prolonged with a view to
its conclusion in 1994",

was deleted, and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 7

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the amendments (A/C.1/47/L.48),
as orally revised, without a vote.

9. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/47/L.4, as amended by document A/C.1/47/L.48, as orally revised, without
a vote (see para. 27, draft resolution A).

10. Subsequently, in a letter dated 20 November 1992 addressed to the
Secretary of the Committee, the delegation of India withdrew its sponsorship
of draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.4.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.8

11. On 27 October, Austria, Brazil, Cameroon, Finland, Greece. Hungary,
Malaysia, Nepal, the Netherlands, Nigeria. Peru, Romania, Sweden, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Guidelines and recommendations for objective information
on military matters" (A/C.l/47/L.8), which was later also sponsored by Costa
Rica. Czechoslovakia, France, Germany, Greece. Ireland and Japan. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland at the 30th meeting, on 11 November.

12. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.i/47/L.8 without a vote (see para. 27, draft resolution B).

c. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.15 and Rev.1

13. The draft resolution was included in the report of the First Committee
under agenda item 51, entitled "Science and Technology for Disarmament" (see
1>./47/681).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.16

14. On 28 October, Afghanistan, Belarus, Canada. China, Costa Rica, the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Indonesia, Japan, Kazakhstan,
~yzstan, Malaysia, Micronesia (Federated States of). Mongolia, Myanmar,
Nepal, New Zealand, Pakistan~ the Philippines, Samoa, Singapore, Tajikistan,
Thailand, Turkmenistan. Ukraine and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Disarmament Week" (A/C.1/47/L.16), which was introduced by the
representative of Mongolia at the 23rd meeting, on 2 November.

15. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.16 without a vote (see para. 27, draft resolution C).

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



10./47/693

English
Page 8

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.22

16. On 30 October, Argentina, Australia. Austria, the Bahamas, Belarus.
Belgium, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada. Colombia, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany. Greece, Honduras, Hungary, India, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg. Malaysia, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, the RepUblic of Korea. Romania, the Russian
Federation, Senegal. Spain. Sweden, Togo, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate
types of confidence-building measures" (A/C.1/47/L.22), which was later also
sponsored by Bolivia, Burundi, Ethiopia, Iceland, th~ RepUblic of Moldoya and
Samoa. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland at the 27th meeting, on
9 November.

17. At its 32nd meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.22 without a vote (see para. 27, draft resolution D).

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.28 and Rev.l

18. On 30 October, Belgium, in its capacity as President of the Conference on
Disarmament, submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report of the Conference
on Disarmament" (A/C.1/47/L.28), which was introduced by its representative at
the 28th meeting, on 10 November.

19. On 6 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/47/L.28/Rev.1), which contained the following change: at the end of
operative paragraph 2, the words "of its agenda" were revised to read "on its
agenda" .

20. At its 31st meeting, on l2 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.28/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 27, draft
resolution E).

G. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.30

21. On 30 October, Austria, Cameroon, Costa Rica, Egypt, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RepUblic of), Italy, the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nepal, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, the
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Senegal, Spain
and pri Lanka submitted a draft resolution entitled "United Nations Institute
for Disarmament Research" (A/C.1/47/L.30), which was later also sponsored by
Albania, Algeria, Armenia, Canada and Singapore. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of France at the 26th meeting, on 5 November.

I • ..

2

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 9

22. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.30 by a recorded vote of 132 to none, with 3 abstentions
(see pa~a. 27, draft resolution F). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, the United States of America.

H. Draft decision A/C.l/47/L.S3

23. On 20 November, the Chairman of the First Committee submitted a draft
decision, entitled "Review of the implementation of the recommendations and
decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session"
(A/C.l/47/L.53), which he introduced at the 40th meeting, on 25 November.

24. At the same meeting, draft decision A/C.l/47/L.53 was orally revised by
the Chairman as follows:

(a) At the end of subparagraph (b), the words "and also to request:"
were deleted;

(b) At the beginning of subparagraphs (b) (i) and (ii), which became
subparagraphs (c) and (d), :he words "To request" were added.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 10

25. In connection with the draft decision, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on its programme budget implications (A/C.1/47/L.55).

26. At its 40th meeting, on 25 November, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.1/47/L.53, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 28, draft
decision) .

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

27. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

Review of the implementation of the recommendations and
decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth

special session

A

Report of the Disarmament Commission

The General Assembly,

Having considered the annual report of the Disarmament Commission, 11

Considering the role that the Disarmament Commission has been called upon
to play and the contribution that it should make in examining and SUbmitting
recommendations on various problems in the field of disarmament and in the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant decisions of the tenth special
session,

Noting the support for the proposal to include a new item in the agenda
of the 1993 substantive session of the Disarmament Commission, entitled
"General guidelines for non-proliferation, with special emphasis on weapons of
mass destruction",

Noting the support for consideration of the inclusion of a new item in
the agenda of the 1994 substantive session of the Disarmament Commission,
entitled "International arms transfer, with particular reference to resolution
46/36 H of 6 December 1991",

Recognizing the need to improve further the effective functioning of the
United Nations Disarmament Commission and, bearing in mind the experience of
the 1992 substantive session, when the agenda item on objective information on
military matters was successfully concluded,

21 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42).

I ••.

s

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-
A/47/693
English
Page 11

Recalling its resolution 46/38 A of 6 December 1991,

1. Takes note of the annual report of the Disarmament Commission: I/

2. Commends the Disarmament Commission for its adoption by consensus of
a set of guidelines and recommendations for objective information on military
matters, which were recommended to the General Assembly for consideration,
pursuant to the adopted "Ways and means to enhance the functioning of the
Disarmament Commission": ~/

3. Notes with satisfaction that the Disarmament Commission has
successfully implemented its reform programme and has made considerable
progress on other substantive items on its agenda;

4. Recalls the role of the Disarmament Commission as the specialized,
deliberative body within the United Nations multilateral disarmament machinery
that allows for in-depth deliberations on specific disarmament issues, leading
to the submission of concrete recommendations on those issues;

5. Reguests the Disarmament Commission to continue its work in
accordance with its mandate, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, ~/ and with
paragraph 3 of resolution 37/78 H of 9 December 1982, and to that end to make
every effort to achieve specific recommendations on the items on its agenda,
taking into account the adopted "Ways and means to enhance the functioning of
the Disarmament Commission" i

6. Stresses the importance for the Disarmament Commission to work on
the basis of a relevant agenda of disarmament topics, thereby enabling the
Commission to concentrate its efforts and thus optimize its progress on
specific subjects in accordance with resolution 37/78 H:

7. Recommends that the Disarmament Commission, at its 1992
organizational session, adopt the following items for consideration at its
1993 substantive session:

(1) Process of nuclear oisarmament in the framework of international
peace and security, with the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons;

(2) Regional approach to disarmament within the context of global
securi ty;

(3) The role of science and technology in the context of international
security, disarmament and other related fields;

~I A/CN.IO/l37 of 27 April 1990.

21 ReSOlution 5-10/2.

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



11./47/693
English
Page 12

8. Requests that the Disarmament Commission, at the aforementioned
organizational meeting, consider the following matters:

(a) The objective of moving the agenda of the Disarmament Commission to
a three-item phased approach with one item in the first year of consideration,
one item in its middle year and one item in its conc1l,1ding year, with the
result that, in principle, one item is added and one item is concluded,
respectively, at each substantive session;

(b) That, in furtherance of the foregoing, the 1993 substantive session
should be considered as a transitional year and therefore should consider
whether:

(i) Two items on the current agenda, namely, those items referred to in
paragraph 7 (2) and (3), respectively, should be concluded;

(ii) One item, namely, that referred to in paragraph 7 (1), should be
held over for conclusion at the next substantive session in 1994;

(iii) One new item should be included in the substantive agenda;

9. Also requests the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not
exceeding four weeks during 1993 and to submit a substantive report to the
General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament
Commission the annual report of the Conference on Disarmament, 10/ together
with all the official records of the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly relating to disarmament matters, and to render all assistance that
the Commission may require for implementing the present resolution;

11. Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure full provision to the
Commission and its subsidiary bodies of interpretation and translation
facilities in the official languages, and to assign, as a matter of priority,
all the necessary resources and services to that end;

12. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Report of the Disarmament Commission".

10/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (11./47/27),

/ • , I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 13

B

Guidelines and recommendations for objective information on
military matters

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 43/75 G of 7 December 1988 and 44/116 E of
15 December 1989,

Taking note of the report of the Disarmament Commission, 11 containing
the text, adopted by the Commission at its 1992 session, of the guidelines and
recommendations for objective information on military matters, III

Expressing its appreciation for the work accomplished by the Disarmament
Commission in finalizing the text of the guidelines and recommendations,

Reaffirming its firm conviction that a better flow of objective
information on military matters can help to relieve international tension and
contribute to the building of confidence among States on a global. regional or
subregional level and to the conclusion of concrete disarmament agreements,

Appealing to all States to consider the widest possible use of objective
information on military matters,

Noting with satisfaction the encouraging results of specific measures
agreed upon and implemented in certain regions,

1. Endorses the guidelines and recommendations for objective
information on military matters as adopted by the Disarmament Commission at
its 1992 substantive session;

2. Recommends the guidelines and r~commendations to all States for
implementation, fully taking into account specific political, military and
other conditions prevailing in a region, on the basis of initiatives and with
the agreement of the States of the region concerned;

3. Invites all States to provide relevant information to the
Secretary-General regarding their implementation of the guidelines and
recommendations not later than 31 May 1994;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
implementation of the guidelines and recommendations, on the basis of national
reports on accumulated relevant experience, to the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session;

III Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/47/42), annex I.

/ t ••

;A

\.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
~

\'
\

Al47/693
English
Page 14

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session an item entitled "Implementation of the guidelines and recommendations
for objective information on military matters".

C

Disarmament Week

The General Assembly,

Noting the momentous developments of unprecedented magnitude that have
taken place in international relations recently, and welcoming the important
achievements of late in the areas of arms limitation and disarmament,

Noting with satisfaction the increasing role and prestige of the United
Nations as a focal point for coordinating and harmonizing the efforts of
States,

Emphasizinqanew the need for and the importance of world public opinion
in support of disarmament efforts in all their aspects,

Further noting with satisfaction the broad and active support by
Governments and international and national organizations of the decision taken
by the General Assembly at its tenth special session, the first special
session devoted to disarmament, regarding the proclamation of the week
starting 24 October, the day of the founding of the United Nations, as a week
devoted to fostering the objectives of disarmament, 121

Recalling the recommendations concerning the World Disarmament Campaign
contained in annex V to the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session
of the General Assembly, the second special session devoted to disarmament, in
particular the recommendation that Disarmament Week should continue to be
widely observed, 13/

Noting the support for the further observance of Disarmament Week
expressed by Member States at the fifteenth special session of the General
Assembly, the third special session devoted to disarmament,

Recognizing the significance of the annual observance of Disarmament
Week, including by the United Nations,

III Resolution 8-10/2, para. 102.

11/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9-13, document A/S-12/32, annex V, .para. 12.

I . ..

£

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



11./47/693
English
Page 15

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secreta~y-Genera1
on the follow-up measures undertaken by States, Governments and
non-governmental organizations in holding Disarmament Week; 11/

2. Commends all States, international and national governmental and
non-governmental organizations for their active support for and participation
in Disarmament Week;

3. Invites all States that so desire, in carrying out appropriate
measures at the local level on the occasion of Disarmament Week, to take into
account the elements of the model programme for Disarmament Week prepared by
the Secretary-Ge~eral;

4. Invites Governments and international and national non-governmental
organizations to continue to take an active part in Disarmament Week and to
inform the Secretary-General of the activities undertaken:

5. Invites the Secretary-General to continue to use the United Nations
information organs as widely as possible to promote better understanding among
the world public of disarmament problems and the objectives of Disarmament
Week:

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session, the year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the item
entitled "Disarmament Week".

D

Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 45/62 F, adopted without a vote on
4 December 1990,

Reconfirming its support for the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures and for the implementation of such measures on a
global or regional level as endorsed in resolution 43/78 H, adopted without a
vote on 7 December 1988,

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General on experience reported by
Member States with the implementation of confidence-building measures, 15/

141 11./471321.

QI 11./47/417.

I . ..

AI

\\1

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



1>../47/693
English
Page 16

Noting with satisfaction the encouraging results of specific
confidence-building measures agreed upon and implemented iri some regions and,
in particular, of measures creating confidence by contributing to disarmament
and arms control and by promoting constraint in the military field,

Realizing with deep concern that at the same time tensions in other
regions rise and that in some places violent armed conflicts have erupted,

Considering that confidence-building measures, especially when applied in
a comprehensive manner, ca~ be conducive to achieving structures of security
based on cooperation and openness and thus contribute to the wider objective
of the renunciation of the threat or use of force,

Welcoming recent progress in the promotion of transparency in the
military field as a cornerstone for confidence-building through the
finalization in the Disarmament Commission at its last session of its work on
the agenda item entitled "Objective information on military matters" and
through the inclusion of the item entitled "Transparency in armaments" in the
agenda of the Conference on Disarmament,

Bearing in mind that confidence-building measures pursued at the regional
level can contribute to the development of global security,

Pointing to the ongoing elaboration and implementation of confidence- and
security-building measures within the framework of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe with a view to building on the foundations already
laid Eor cooperative security in Europe,

Aware that there are situations peculiar to specific regions that have a
bearing on the nature of the confidence-building measures feasible in those
regions,

1. Stresses the need for the development of confidence-building
measures as a concrete and continuous process to help to prevent the use of
armed force as a means of resolving political conflicts;

2. Recommends the guidelines to all States for implementation, taking
fully into account the specific political, military and other conditions
prevailing in a region, on the basis of initiatives and with the agreement and
cooperation of the States of the region concerned;

3. Also recommends t·J all States and regions that have started to
implement conEidence-buildi~gmeasures to pursue further and strengthen this
process;

4. Appeals to all St~tes to consider the widest possible use of
confidence-building measure~ in their international relations, including
bilateral, regional and gloJal negotiations, as an important step towards
prevention of conflict and, in times of political tension and crisis, as an
instrument for peaceful settlement of conflicts;

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 17

5. Requests the·Conference on Disarmament to pursue actively its work
on the agenda item entitled "Transparency in armaments", which includes
consideration and elaboration of universal and non-discriminatory practical
means to increase openness and transparency in military matters;

6. Invites the Secretary-General to continue to collect relevant
information from all Member States;

7. Appeals to all Member States that have not yet done so to make their.
contribution to the report of the Secretary-General;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda for its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate
types of confidence-building measures".

E

Report of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Conference on Disarmament, 101

Convinced that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
disarmament negotiating forum of the international community, has the primary
role in substantive negotiations on priority questions of disarmament,

Considering, in this respect, that the present international climate
should give additional impetus to multilateral negotiations with the aim of
reaching concrete agreements,

Welcoming the conclusion of negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament
on the draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production,
Stockpiling and Use of Chemi~al Weapons and on Their Destruction, 161 which
has reaffirmed the need for and the importance of the Conference as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international community,

Noting with satisfaction the results achieved so far on the subject of
the improved and effective functioning of the Conference on Disarmament,
including the decision to carry out consultations on the issues of the
membership and agend~ of the Conference, and the decision of the Conference,
to continue the process at its 1993 session,

1. Reaffirms the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international community;

IQ/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), appendi~ I.

I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 18

2. Welcomes the determination of the Conference on Disarmament to
fulfil that role in the light of the evolving international situation with a
view to making early substantive progress on priority items of its agenda;

3. Encourages the ongoing review of the agenda, membership and methods
of work of the Conference on Disarmament;

4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to submit a report on its
work to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Report of the Conference on Disarmament".

F

United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 34/83 M of 11 December 1979, in which it
requested the Secretary-General to establish the United Nations Institute for
Disarmament Research on the basis of the recommendations contained in the
report of the Secretary-General, 12/

Reaffirming its resolution 39/148 H of 17 December 1984, in which it
approved the Statute of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research,
renewed the invitations to Governments to consider making voluntary
contributions to the Institute and requested the Secretary-General to continue
to give the Institute administrative and other support,

Recalling also its resolution 42/42 J of 30 November 1987, in which it
took note with appreciation of the report of the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studies 18/ and noted that the establishment of the Institute offered new
opportunities regarding research in the field of disarmament,

R~calling further its resolution 45/62 G of 4 December 1990, in which it
requested the Institute to prepare, with the assistance of independent
experts, a research report on the economic aspects of disarmament and to
report to the General Assembly, through the Secretary-General, at its
forty-seventh session,

Reaffirming the need for the international community to have access to
independent and in-depth research on disarmament, in particUlar on emerging
problems and the foreseeable consequences of disarmament,

17/ A/34/589.

lli/ A/42/300, annex.

I • .•

I

r
I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 19

Noting in this regard the importance of research on the economic aspects
of disarmament,

Having considered the annual report of the Director of the Institute 191
and the report of the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters lQl acting in its
capacity as Board of Trustees of the Institute,

1. Welcomes the research report of the United Nations Institute for
Disarmament Research entitled "Economic aspects of disarmament: disarmament
3S an investment process", 211 as transmitted by the Secretary-General to the
General Assembly:

2. Commends the report to the attention of Member States and encourages
them to give active consideration, in particular, to the economic principles
for disarmament contained in the executive summary of the report:

3. Requests the Secretary-General to give the report the widest
possible circulation.

* *
28. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

Review of the implementation of the recommendations and
decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth

special session

The General Assembly, on the recommendation of the First Committee,
decides:

(a) To reconvene meetings of the First Committee for five working days,
from 8 to 12 March 1993 in New York, with the purpose of reassessing the
multilateral arms control and disarmament machinery, in particular the
respective roles of the First Committee, the United Nations Disarmament
Commission and the Conference on Disarmament and their interrelationship, as
well as the role of the Office for Disarmament Affairs, including ways and
means to enhance the functioning and efficiency of the said machinery, bearing
in mind the competence of tne Security Council in those matters. The aim of

~I A/47/345, annex I.

lQI Ibid., annex 11.

£11 A/47/346, annex.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/693
English
Page 20

the session is to conduct the aforementioned reassessment with a view to
reaching concrete, agreed recommendations for appropriate action. With
respect to the Conference on Disarmament, it is understood that the primary
responsibility for making recommendations on its future rests with that body;

Cb) To invite Member States to provide their views on the report of the
Secretary-General entitled "New dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament
in the post-cold war era" 22/ no later than 31 January 1993, and to request
the Secretary-General to sUbmit a compilation of the said views thereon to the
General Assembly for consideration at the reconvened meetings of the First
Committee;

(c) To request the Secretary-General to transmit his report, entitled
"New dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament in the post-cold war
era", ill to the Conference on Disarmament; and the Conference on Disarmament
to transmit to the Chairman of the First Committee the results of its
consideration of that report by 15 February 1993, as well as the status of its
ongoing review of its agenda, composition and methods of work by
20 February 1993;

(d) ~o request the Chairman of the First Committee, with the assistance
of the other officers of the Committee, and the Secretariat, to coordinate the
above actions.

~/ A/C.l/47/7.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




