








































UNITED·
NATIONS A

General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/47/698
4 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

.'.
Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 68

.'
IMPLEMENTATI~lh~Jf~;;'~~E(~~:e;'l:.Aj;tTIoN'6t THE INDIAN OCEAN

.,~AS A ZONE OF PEACE

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace" was included in the provisional agenda of the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly in accordance with its
resolution 46/49 of 9 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.l/47/PV.3-21). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 2Znd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.3l-40).

4. In connection with item 68, the First Committee had before it
the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean. 1/

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 29 (A/47/29).

92-77316 0885P (E) 041292 071292 / ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



n

A/47/698
English
Page 2

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/47/L.3l AND REV.l

5. On 30 October, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted
draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian
Ocean as a Zone of Peace" (A/C.l/47/L.3l), which was introduced by the
representative of Sri Lanka at the 32nd meeting, on 12 November.

6. Also on 12 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/47/L.31/Rev.1), which contained the following change: operative
paragraph 6, which had read:

"6. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to hold a session during 1993,
with a duration of ten working days and with the possibility of holding
another session of five working days, if necessary"

was revised to read:

"6. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to hold a session during 1993,
wi th a duration of not more than ten working days".

7. In connection with draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.3l/Rev.l, the
Secretary-General submitted a statement on its programme budget implications
(A/C.l/47/L.49).

8. At the 34th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.31/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 98 to 3, with 31
abstentions (see para. 9). The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brune
Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arat
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesi c
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian

ZI Subsequently, the delegation of Kenya indicated that it had intendE 1
to vote in favour of the draft resolution, and the delegation of Spain
indicated that it had intended to abstain.

I. , •

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/698
English
Page 3

Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen.

Against: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Slovenia,
Sweden, Turkey.

Ill. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace

The General Assembly,

Recalling the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace,
contained in its resolution 2832 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, and recalling
also its resolution 46/49 of 9 December 1991 and other relevant resolutions,

Recalling also the report on the Meeting of the Littoral and Hinterland
States of the Indian Ocean held in July 1979, J/

Recalling further paragraphs 15 and 16, chapter Ill, of the Final
Document adopted by the Tenth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to 6 September 1992, 11

Affirming the importance of the establishment of the Indian Ocean as a
zone of peace to achieve the goals contained in the Declaration of the Indian
Ocean as a Zone of Peace and as considered at the Meeting of the Littoral and
Hinterland States of the Indian Ocean held in July 1979,

~I Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 45 and corrigendum (A/34/45 and Corr.l).

11 See A/47/675-S/24816, annex.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/698
English
Page 4

Welcoming the positive developments in international political relations,
which offer opportunities for enhancing peace, security and cooperation, and
expressing the hope that the new spirit of international cooperation will be
reflected in the establishment of a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean and in
the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean to that end,

Having considered the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian
Ocean, .5./

Noting with appreciation the offer made by the Government of Sri Lanka to
host the united Nations Conference on the Indian Ocean at Colombo,

Noting also that it may not be possible to convene the first stage of the
United Nations Conference on the Indian Ocean in accordance with resolution
46/49 and urging that consideration be given to the timing of such a
conference at Colombo at the appropriate time,

Desirou~ of continuing its efforts for the establishment of a zone of
peace in the Indian Ocean,

Considering the need for new alternative approaches for the establishment
of a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean,

1. Takes note of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian
Ocean; .5./

2. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to consider new alternative approaches
leading to the achievement of the goals contained in the Declaration of the
Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace and as considered at the Meeting of the
Littoral and Hinterland States of the Indian Ocean held in July 1979, taking
into account the changing international situation;

3. Also requests the Ad Hoc Committee to address the complex
ramifications of the issues involved and differing perceptions on these issues
as well as the future role of the Ad Hoc Committee and to make recommendations
for consideration by the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;

4. Decides to convene, as early as possible thereafter, the Conference
at Colombo with the participation of the permanent members of the Security
Council and the major maritime users of the Indian Ocean;

5. ~alls upon the permanent members of the Security Council and the
major maritime users of the Indian Ocean to participate in the work of the
Ad Hoc Committee;

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Suppl;ment No. 29 (A/47/29).

/ .....

I
(

f
~
'I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/698
Enqlish
Paqe 5

6. Reguests the Ad Hoc Committee to hold a session durinq 1993, with a
duration of not more than ten workinq days;

7. Also requests the Ad Hoc Committee to submit to the General Assembly
at its forty-eighth session a comprehensive report on the implementation of
the present resolution;

8, Further reguests the Secretary-General to continue to render all
necessary assistance to the Ad Hoc Committee, including the provision of
summary records;

9. Decides to include in the provisional aqenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian
Ocean as a Zone of Peace",

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




