








































11,

UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/47/646
11 November 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda items 100 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF
INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES BY THE
SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS

ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Khalid Mohammad AL-BAKER (Qatar)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-seventh session the following items:

"100. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations."

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council."

At the same meeting, th~ Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth Committee
agenda item 100, together with chapters I and V (sect. 8) of the report of the
Economic and Social Council (A/47/3), 1/ which relate to the item.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 98, 99, lOO, and 12, 101, and 105, on
the understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/47/3/Rev.l).

...,..

92-69325 0837P (E)

erf
131192 151.192 / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/646
English
Page 2

3. The Fourth Committee considered items 100 and 12 at its 2nd to
8th meetings, between 6 October and 3 November (see A/C.4/47/SR.2-8). The
general debate on the items referred to above, including the present items,
took place at the 3rd to 7th meetings, between 13 and 22 October.

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee
during 1992 and drew attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee
relating to item 100 {A/47/23 (Part IV» ~/ containing, inter alia, the
related draft resolution submitted by the Committee for the consideration of
the Fourth Committee.

5. During its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee had before it
the report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraph 21 of
General Assembly resolution 46/65 of 11 December 1991 (A/47/28l and Add.l).

6. At its 3rd meeting, on 13 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request
for hearing to Mr. Carly1e Corbin, Working Group of Non-Independent Caribbean
Countries of the Caribbean Development and Cooperation Committee .
(A/C.4/47/3). At the 5th meeting, on 20 October, Mr. Corbin made a statement
(A/C.4/47/SR.5).

7. At its 8th meeting, on 3 November, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 15 of chapter VII of the report of the
Special Committee {A/47/23 (Part IV» by a recorded vote of 93 to 21, with 13
abstentions {see para. 8).1/ The voting was as follows:

r

~/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/47/23).

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussa1am, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives~ Mali,

\,

;, ,
i

-!

, .

J/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives
of Argentina, Austria, Denmark (on behalf also of Finland, Iceland, Norway and
Sweden), the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland (on behalf also of the European Community) and the United
States of America.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/646
English
Page 3

Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Israel,
Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Sweden, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Greece, Ireland, Japan, New
Zealand, Panama, Paraguay, Republic of Korea, Spain, Turkey,
Uruguay.

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

8. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Ingependence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
specialized agencies and the international institutions

a§sociated with the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations",

Having con§idered the reports submitted on the item by the
Secretary-General !I and the Chairman of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 21

11 A/47/281 and Add.1.

~I A/AC.109/L.1785.

1 ••.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I.. ·•

A/47/646
English
Page 4

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, Q/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, as well as all its other
resolutions on this subject, including, in particular, resolution 46/181 of
19 December 1991, endorsing the Plan of Action for the International Decade
for the Eradication of Colonialism, 2/

Recalling also its resolution S-16/1 of 14 December 1989, the annex to
which contains the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences
in Southern Africa,

Bgaring in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity,

Deeply concerned that the objectives of the Charter of the United Nations
and the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples have not been fully achieved,

Recognizing that permanent peace and stability in southern Africa can
only be achieved when the system of apartheid in South Africa has been
eradicated and South Africa has been transformed into a united, democratic and
non-racial country, and reiterating therefore that all the necessary measures
should be adopted at the present time to bring a speedy end to the apartheid
system in the interest of all the people of southern Africa, the African
continent and the world at large,

Noting that the large majority of the remaining colonial Territories are
small island Territories,

Recalling its resolution 43/189 of 20 December 1988, concerning specific
measures in favour of island developing countries,

Bgaring in mind the conclusions and recommendations of the Meeting of
Governmental Experts of Island Developing Countries and Donor Countries and
Organizations, held in New York from 25 to 29 June 1990, ~/

r

" f Q/ A/47/23 (Part IV), chap. VII.

2/ See A/46/634/Rev.l of 13 December 1991.

~/ A/CONF.147/5-TD/B/AC.46/4, chap. 11.

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/646
English
Page 5

Recalling relevant resolutions of the Caribbean Development and
Cooperation Committee concerning the access of colonial Territories to
programmes of the United Nations system,

Noting the assistance extended thus far to colonial Territories by
certain specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, and
considering that such assistance should be expanded further, commensurate with
the pressing needs of the peoples concerned for external assistance,

Stressing the importance of securing necessary resources for funding
expanded assistance programmes for the peoples concerned and the need to
enlist the support of all major funding institutions within the United Nations
system in that regard,

Noting with serious concern the continuing effects of the acts of
aggression and destabilization that have been committed by South Africa
against neighbouring independent African States,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to take all the necessary measures,
within their respective spheres of competence, to enSure the full
implementation, without further delay, of General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations, particularly
those relating to the extension of assistance to the peoples of the colonial
Territories,

Expressing its appreciation to the Organization of African Unity, the
South Pacific Forum and the Caribbean Community, as well as other regional
organizations, for the continued cooperation and assistance they have extended
to the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system in this regard,

Concerned by the fact that all Member States have not adhered to the
measures provided in the Programme of Action contained in the Declaration on
Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa and have thus
continued or re-established relations in a number of fields with South Africa,

Bearing in mind the importance of the activities of non-governmental
organizations aimed at putting an end to the assistance that is still being
rendered to South Africa by some specialized agencies,

Expressing its conviction that closer contacts and consultations between
and among the specialized agencies and other organizations of the united
Nations system and regional organizations help to facilitate the effective
formulation of assistance programmes to the peoples concerned,

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the
activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions
relating to decolonization,

/ ....
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/646
English
Page 6

Bearing in mind the extremely fragile economies of the small island
Territories and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such as hurricanes
and cyclones, and recalling relevant resolutions of the General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/70 of 11 December 1991 on cooperation and
coordination of the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations in their assistance to Non-Self-Governing
Territories,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item; Q/

2. Takes note of the report of the Chairman of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples on his
consultations with the Acting President of the Economic and Social Council, ~/
and endorses the observations and suggestions arising therefrom; ~I

3. Recommends that all States intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to
ensure the full and effective implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations;

4. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organizations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute to
the full implementation, without further delay, of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and all other
relevant General Assembly resolutions;

5. Reaffirms also that the recognition by the General Assembly, the
Security Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the
aspiration of colonial peoples to exercise their right to self-determination
and independence entails, as a corollary, the extension of all necessary moral
and material assistance to those peoples and their national liberation
movements by the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system;

6. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system that have continued to cooperate
with the United Nations and the regional and sUbregiona1 organizations in the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations, and urges all the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations system to accelerate the full and
speedy implementation of the relevant provisions of those resolutions;

~/ E/1992185.

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/646
English
Page 7

7. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system, as well as international and regional organizations, to
examine and review conditions in each Territory so as to take appropriate
measures to accelerate progress in the economic and social sectors of the
Territories;

8. Requests all specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system to strengthen measures of support and formulate adequate
programmes of assistance to the peoples of colonial Territories, bearing in
mind that such assistance should not only meet their immediate needs but also
create conditions for development after they have exercised their right to
self-determination and independence;

9. Also requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of
the United Nations system to provide, through an inter-agency framework, the
necessary assistance to small islan1 Territories in order to alleviate the
adverse conditions arising from the interplay of factors relating mainly to
their size and geographical location;

10. Further requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of
the United Nations system, in formulating their assistance programmes, to take
due account of the conclusions and recommendations, entitled "Challenges and
opportunities: a strategic framework", of the Meeting of Governmental Experts
of Island Developing Countries and Donor Countries and Organizations, held in
New York in June 1990; ~/

11. Requests once again the specialized agencies and other organizations
of the United Nations system to continue to provide all humanitarian, material
and moral assistance to Namibia and all newly independent and emerging States
so as to enable them to consolidate their political independence and achieve
genuine economic independence;

12. ~ the executive heads of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system, in cooperation with the regional
and other organizations where appropriate, to submit to their governing and
legislative organs concrete proposals for the full implementation of the
relevant United Nations decisions, partiCUlarly specific programmes of
assistance to the peoples of the colonial Territories and their national
liberation movements;

13. Recommends that the executive heads of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund draw the attention of their governing bodies to
the present resolution and to consider introducing flexible procedures to
prepare specific programmes for the peoples of the Non-Selt-Governing
Territories;

14. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system that have not already done so to include in the agenda of the
regular meetings of their governing bodies a separate item on the progress
they have made in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)
and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

I •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/646
English
Page 8

15. Welcomes the continued initiative exercised by the United Nations
Development Programme in maintaining close liaisvn among the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system and in
coordinating the activities of the agencies in extending effective assistance
to the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories, and calls upon the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, as
a matter of urgency, to contribute generously to the relief, rehabilitation
and reconstruction efforts in those Non-Self-Governing Territories affected by
natural disasters;

16. Urges the administering Powers concerned to facilitate the
participation of the representatives of the Governments of Trust and [
Non-Self-Governing Territories in the relevant meetings and conferences of the _
agencies and organizations so that the Territories may draw the maximum
benefits from the related activities of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of- the United Nations system;

17. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system to adhere to the Programme of Action contained in the
Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa,
in particular with regard to increased support for the opponents of apartheid,
the use of concerted and effective measures aimed at applying pressure to
ensure a speedy end to apartheid, and ensuring the non-relaxation of existing
measures to encourage the South African regime to eradicate apartheid until
there is clear evidence of profound and irreversible changes;

18. Stresses, in the context of the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, the need for the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to render all
possible assistance to the front-line and neighbouring States to enable them
to rebuild their economies, which have been adversely affected by acts of
aggression and destabilization by South Africa, to withstand any further such
acts and to continue to support the people of South Africa;

19. Invites the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system to cooperate with the Action for Resisting Invasion,
Colonialism and Apartheid Fund established by the Eighth Conference of Heads
of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare from 1 to
5 September 1986, with the common objective of providing emergency assistance
to the front-line States and national liberation movements struggling against
the apartheid regime, and with other measures taken by the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries and the Organization of African Unity;

20. Urges all States, especially those that have economic, financial or
other links to South Africa, to adhere fully to the Programme of Action
contained in the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in
Southern Africa until the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial
South Africa;

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-
A/47/646
English
Page 9

21. Recommends that all Governments should intensify their efforts in
the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system
of which they are members to ensure the full and effective implementation of
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the
United Nations and, in that connection, should accord priority to the question
of providing assistance on an emergency basis to the peoples of the
Non-Self-Governing Territories;

22. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the
assistance of those agencies and organizations, a report on the action taken
in implementation of the relevant resolutions, including the present
resolution, since the circulation of his previous report;

23. Commends the Economic and Social Council for its debate and
resolution on this issue and requests it to continue, as appropriate, to
consider, in consultation with the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, appropriate measures for
coordination of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations system in implementing the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly;

24. Requests the specialized agencies to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the present resolution;

25. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to
the governing bodies of the appropriate specialized agencies and international
institutions associated with the United Nations so that those bodies take the
necessary measures to implement the resolution, and also requests the
Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session on the implementation of the present resolution;

26. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question
and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth sessio~.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




