








































UNITED'
NATIONS

General Assembly

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 57

Distr.
GENERAL

A/47/687
1 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

A

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS TO ASSURE
NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON STATES AGAINST THE USE OR THREAT OF USE

OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons" was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session
of the General Assembly in accordance with its resolution 46/32 of
6 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.l/47/PV.3-2l). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.3l-40).

92-76630 0880? (E) 031292 061292 / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
~.

A/47/687
English
Page 2

4. In connection with item 57, the First Committee had before it the
following document: report of the Conference on Disarmament. 1/

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/47/L.17

5. On 28 October, Bangladesh, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Madagascar, Nepal,
Pakistan a.nd Sri Lanka submitted a draft resolution entitled "Conclusion of
effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons" (A/C.l/47/L.17), which
was later also sponsored by Colombia and Viet Nam. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Pakistan at the 33rd meeting, on
13 November.

6. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.17
by a recorded vote of 139 to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 7). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, St. Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire,
Zambia.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27).

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/687
English
Page 3

Against: None.

Abstaining: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Conclusion of effective international arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-wea~onStates against the use or threat of use

of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States of
the world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples,

Convinced that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and to
the survival of civilization,

Welcoming the progress achieved in recent years in both nuclear and
conventional disarmament,

Noting that, despite recent progress in the field of nuclear disarmament,
further efforts are necessary towards the achievement of the goal of general
and complete disarmament under effective international control,

Convinced that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of
nuclear weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

Determined strictly to abide by the relevant provisions of the Charter of
the United Nations on the non-use of force or threat of force,

Recognizing that the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty
of non-nuclear-weapon States need to be safeguarded against the use or threat
of use of force, including the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal
basis, it is imperative for the international community to develop effective
measures and arrangements to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Recognizing that effective measures and arrangements to assure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
can contribute positively to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/4,.7/687
English
Page 4

Bearing in mind paragraph 59 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Se~sion of the General Assembly, l/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament, in which it urged the nuclear-weapon States to pursue efforts to
cOnclude, as appropriate, effective arrangements to assure non-nuc1ear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and desirous of
promoting the implementation of the relevant provisions of the Final Document,

Recalling the relevant parts of the special report of the Committee on
Disarmament, l/ submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special
session, ~/ the second special session devoted to disarmament, and of the
special report of the Conference on Disarmament submitted to the Assembly at
i~s fifteenth special session, ~/ the third special session devoted to
d~sarmament, as well as of the report of the Conference on its 1992 session, Q/

Recalling also paragraph 12 of the Declaration of the 19805 as the Second
Disarmament Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 35/46 of
3 December 1980, which states, inter alia, that all efforts should be exerted
b~ the Committee on Disarmament urgently to negotiate with a view to reaching
a9reement on effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
S~ates against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Noting the in-depth negotiations undertaken in the Conference on
Disarmament and its Ad Hoc Committee on Effective International Arrangements
to Assure Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use of
Nuclear Weapons, with a view to reaching agreement on this item,

Taking note of the proposals submitted under that item in the Conference
on Disarmament, including the drafts of an international convention,

Taking note also of the decision of the Tenth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to
6 September 1992, 1/ as well as the relevant recommendations of the
Organi2ation of the Islamic Conference reiterated in the Final Communique of

~/ Resolution S-10/2.

~/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

~/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Supplement No. 2 (A/S-12/2), sect. III.C.

~/ Ibid., Fifteenth Special Session, Supplement No. 2 (A/S-15/2),
sect. Ill. F.

Q/ Ibid., Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27),

1/ See A/47/675-S/24816, annex.

/ ...

•

f,

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/687
English
Page 5

the Twentieth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Istanbul from 4
to 8 August 1991, ~/ calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to reach an
urgent agreement on an international convention to assure non-nuclear~weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Taking note further of the unilateral declarations made by all
nuclear-weapon States on their policies of non-use or non-threat of use of
nuclear weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States,

Noting the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use o( nuclear weapons,
as well as the difficulties pointed out in evolving a common approach
acceptable to all,

Noting also the greater willingness to overcome the difficulties
encountered in previous years,

Recalling its relevant resolutions adopted in previous years, in
particular resolutions 45/54 of 4 December 1990 and 46/32 of 6 December 1991,

1. Reaffirms the urgent need to reach an early agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons;

2. Notes with satisfaction that in the Conference on Disarmament there
is no objection, in principle, to the idea of an international convention to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons, although the difficulties as regards evolving a common approach
acceptable to all have also been pointed out;

3. Appeals to all States, especially the nUClear-weapon States, to work
actively towards an early agreement on a common approach and, in particular,
on a common formula that could be included in an international instrument of a
legally binding character;

4. Recommends that further intensive efforts should be devoted to the
search for such a common approach or common formula and that the various
alternative approaches, inclUding, in particular, those considered in the
Conference on Disarmament, should be further explored in order to overcome the
difficulties;

5. Recommends also that the Conference on Disarmament should actively
continue intensive negotiations with .a view to reaching early agreement and
conclUding effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, taking into

~/ See A/46/486-S/23055, annex r.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/687
English
Page 6

account the widespread support for the conclusion of an international
convention and giving consideration to any other proposals designed to secure
the same objective;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements
to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons".

I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




