








































UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
LIMITED

A('F(L. 9/Rev.1
20 October 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 14

REPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY

Albania, Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Malawi,
Malta, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portug~
Romania, Russian Federation. Spain. Sweden, Ukraine. United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and United

States of America: revised draft resolution

The General Assembly.

Haying received the report of the International Atomic Energy Agency to
the General Assembly for the year 1991, 11

Taking note of the statement of the Director General of the International
Atomic Energy Agency of .•. October 1992, Il which provides additional
information on the main developments in the Agency's activities during 1992,

Recognizing the importance of the work of the Agency to promote further
the application of atomic energy for peaceful purposes, as envisaged in its
statute,

Also recogn~z~ng the special needs of the developing countries for
technical assistance by the Agency in order to benefit effectively from the
application of nuclear technology for peacefUl purposes as well as from the
contribution of nuclear energy to their economic development,

11 International Atomic Energy Agency. The Annual Report for 1991
(Austria. July 1992) (GC(XXXVI/1004»; transmitted to the members of the
General Assembly by a note of the Secretary-General (A/47/374).

Il See A/47/PV.

92-51337 4425Z (E) 201092 201092 I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47 IL. 9/Rev.1
English
Page 2

Conscious of the importance of the work of the Agency in the
implementation of safeguards provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons 11 and other international treaties, conventions and
agreements designed to achieve similar objectives, as well as in ensuring, as
far as it is able, that the assistance provided by the Agency or at its
request or under its supervision or control is not used in such a way as to
further any military purpose, as stated in article 11 of its statute,

Further recognizing the importance of the work of the Agency on nuclear
power, applications of nuclear methods and techniques, nuclear safety,
radiological protection and radioactive waste management, including its work
directed towards assisting developing countries in planning for the
introduction of nuclear power in accordance with their needs,

Again stressing the need for the highest standards of safety in the
design and operation of nuclear plants so as to minimize risks to life, health
and the environment,

Noting the statements and actions of the Agency concerning non-compliance
by Iraq with its non-proliferation obligations,

Bearing in mind resolutions GC(XXXVI)/RES/577 on the nuclear capabilities
of South Africa, GC(XXXVI)/RES/579 on non-compliance by Iraq with its
safeguards obligations, GC(XXXVI)/RES/582 on measures to strengthen
international cooperation in matters relating to nuclear safety and
radiological protection, GC(XXXVI)/RES/583 on revision of the Basic Safety
Standards for Radiation Protection, GC(XXXVI)/RES/584 on education and
training in radiation protection and nuclear safety, GC(XXXVI)/RES/585 on
liability for nuclear damage, GC(XXXVI)/RES/586 on strengthening the
effectiveness and improving the efficiency of the safeguards system,
GC(XXXVI)/RES/587 on strengthening of the main activities of the Agency,
GC(XXXVI)/RES/588 on practical utilization of food irradiation in developing
countries, GC(XXXVI)/RES/592 entitled "Plan for producing potable water
economically", and GC (XXXVI ) IRES/601 on the application of safeguards of the
Agency in the Middle East, adopted on 25 September 1992 by the General
Conference of the Agency at its thirty-sixth regular session,

1. Takes note of the report of the International Atomic Energy
Agency; 11

2. Affirms its confidence in the role of the Agency in the application
of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes;

3. Urges all States to strive for effective and harmonious
international cooperation in carrying out the work of the Agency, pursuant to
its statute; in promoting the use of nuclear energy and the application of the

31 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.

I . .•

-

lr
I

I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.9/Rev.l
English
Page 3

necessary measures to strengthen further the safety of nuclear installations
and to minimize risks to life, health and the environment; in strengthening
technical assistance and cooperation for developing countries; and in ensuring
the effectiveness and efficiency of the safeguards system of the Agency;

4. Welcomes the decisions taken by the Agency to strengthen its
safeguards system;

5. Welcomes also the decisions taken by the Agency to strengthen its
technical assistance and cooperation activities;

6. Commends the Director General and his staff for their strenuous
efforts in the implementation of Security Council resolutions 687 (1991) of
3 April 1991, 707 (1991) of 15 August 1991 and 715 (1991) of 11 October 1991,
in particular the detection and destruction or otherwise rendering harmless of
equipment and material which could be used for nuclear weapons;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Director General
of the Agency the records of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly
relating to the activities of the Agency.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




