








































UNITED
NATIONS

Generall\ssembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A

AI4717171Add. 1
17 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seV"enth sess ion
Agenda i tern 1. 2

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Committee (Part II).

Rapporteur: Mr. Walter BALZAN (Malta)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on item 12 (see A/47/7l7,
para. 3). Action to be taken on the item was further considered at the 48th
to 51st llleeti.ngs, on 7 , 9, 11 and 16 December 1992. An account of the
Committee's consideration of the item is contained in the relevant summary
records (see A/C.2/47/SR.48-5l).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution Ale. 2/47/L. 2

2. At its 49th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee had before it a draft
resoluti.on conta.ined i.n document A/C.2147/L.2, entitled "Implementation of
section II of the annex to General Assembly resolution 32/197 on the
res tructuring of the economic and social sectors of the United Nations system".

3. At the same meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the General
Assembly that it defer unt.il its forty-eighth session consideration of draft
resolution A/C.2/47/L. 2 (see para. 53, draft decision I).

.. The report of the Committee on this item will be issued in two parts
(see also A/4717~7).

92- 82707 0952P (E) 201292 211292 I • ••

,'.;
;J
,

~i;

:J,i,t;Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471717/Add.l
English
Page 2

B. Draft resolution A/C.2147/L.5 and Rev.l

4. By its resolution 1992/58 of 31 July 1992, the Economic and Social
Council recommended to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution
entitled "Assistance to the Palestinian people" (see A/C. 2 /471L. 5).

5. At the 50th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Miss Mayrnouna Diop (Senegal), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2147/L. 5 (see
AlC. 2/47 IL. 5/Rev. 1) and orally revised the first 1 ine of operative paragraph 4
to read, after "Israel", "to accept de jure applicability".

6. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution had no programme
budget implications.

7. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by
Israel, the United States of America and Spain (see AlC.2147/SR.50).

8. At its 50th meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution contained
in document A/C.2/47/L.5/Rev.1, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 107
to 2, with 2 abstentions (see para. 52, draft resolution I). The voting was
as follows: 11

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, A.ustria,
Azerbaij an, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Be1arus, Be1gium,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France,
Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezue1 a,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe .

.1/ Subsequently the representatives of Kuwait, Jordan, Sri Lanka and
Zambia informed the Committee that had their delegations been present during
the voting, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Against:

Abstaining:

A/47/717/Add.l
English
Page 3

Israel, United States of America.

Marsha11 Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of).

g. After the adopti.on of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
European Communi ty, Austr ia, Australia and Norway. The Observer for Palestine
al so made a statement (see AlC .2/47 ISR. 50) •

C. Draft resolutions A/C.2147/L.23 and L.78

10. At the 40th. meeting, on 1.6 November, the representative of the United
States of America, a1 so on beh.alf of Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Belarus, Be1gium, Bu1garia, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, El Salvador,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Ita1y, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Marshall IS'1ands , Mongoli a, the Netherlands, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
the Republic of :Korea, the Repyblic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian
Federation, SamQa, Singapore, Sloyenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine and the
United Kingdom of Great Britai.n and Northern Ireland, subsequently joined by
Thailand, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.23) entitled
"Privatization", which read as follows:

liThe General As sembly,

"Reaff.:irming its resolution 8-18/3 of 1 May 1990, containing the
Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the
Revita1i,zat.:ion of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing
Countries, and noting its resoluti.on 45/199 of 21 December 1990,
containing the International Development Strategy for the FouZ'"th United
Nations Development Decade, as well as other relevant United Nations
re solu. tions ,

"Recal J.ing the Carta.gena Commitment adopted by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development at its eighth session 21 and Trade
and Development Board decision 398 (XX:XVIII) of 7 May 1992; II

"Recal J.ing also Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/36 of
30 July 199:2 on privatiza.tion and foreign investment in the context of
economic re stru.cturing,

6./ TD/364, part one, sect. A.

3./ See A/47/15 (vol. I), sect. II.

I . .•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/411717/Add.l
English
Page 4

"Recognizing the sovereign right of each State to decide on the
development of its private and public sectors, taking into account the
comparative advantages of each sector, and the work of the Ad Hoc Working
Group on Comparative Experiences with Privatization established by the
Trade and Development Board in its decision 398 (XXXVIII),

"Noting that the private sector plays a positive role in mobi~izing
resources and promoting economic growth and sustainable development,

"Noting also that many countries are attaching growing importance to
the privatization of enterprises, demonopolization and administrative
deregulation of economic activities, as well as market-oriented reforms,
increased cornpeti tion, elimination of pr ice-disto rting mechani sms and
open markets, all as a means to increase economic efficiency, growth and
sustainable development, in the context of their economic restructuring
policies,

"Noting the difficulties these countries encounter in those policies,

"1. Welcomes the activities being undertaken by relevant organs,
organizations and bodies of the United Nations system in supporting
national policies aimed at increasing economic efficiency, growth and
sustainable development through privatization, demonopolization,
administrative deregulation of economic activities and other relevant
policies, and urges them~

"( a) To support, when requested, the national efforts of countries
in implementing privatization, demonopolization, administrative
deregulation and other relevant policies in the context of their economic
reforms and the opening of their economies;

"(b) To strengthen their communication and cooperation in supporting
the national efforts of countries in privatizing enterprises,
demonopolizing and deregulating their economic activities and
implementing other relevant policies, and invites the Secretary-General
to give due attention and focus to coordination of the United Nations
system in this field, through, inter alia, the Economic and Social
Council and other relevant United Nations bodies;

"(c) In implementing their respective mandates, to take into account
the work already undertaken by the organs, organizations and bodies of
the United Nations system in order to maximize the efficiency of the
United Nations system, mindful of the ongoing restructuring process of
the system;

"2. Calls upon Member States to enhance the exchange of information
among themselves and all relevant organs, organizations and bodies of the
United Nations system on their activities, progr~es and experiences
concerning privatization, demonopolization, administrative deregulation
and other relevant policies in order to increase the efficiency and
coordination of technical cooperation in this field;

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/717/A.dd.l
English
Page 5

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to improve, within existing
resources, research activities on privatization, demonopolization,
administrative deregulation and other relevant policies and to include
pertinent findinqs in re1evant United Nations publications, including the
World Economic Survey;

"4. [Beguests the Secretary-General to include in his report to be
submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, pursuant
to its reso~ution 46/166 on entrepreneurship, recommendations for action
by the United Nations system in support of the present resolution]. 11

11. At the 50th meetinq, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
IMiss Maymouna Diop (Senegal), introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.78)
entitled "Privatization i.n the context of economic re5tructuring, economic
growth and sustainab1e development", which she submitted on the basis of
informal consultations held on draft resolution Ale. 2/47 IL. 23.

12. the Committee was informed that the draft resolution had no programme
bUdget impl icati. ons.

1.3. A.t its 50th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.21471L.78
without a vote (see para. 52, draft resolution II).

~4. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C. 2/47 IL. 78, draft
resolution A/C.2/47/L.23 was 'Withdrawn by its sponsors.

D. Draft resolution A/C. 2147 IL. 29 and Rev.l

15. At the 43rd meeting, on ~9 November, the representative of Malaysia, also
on behalf of Afghani. stan, Algeria, Cuba, Dj iboutL Egypt. Indonesia, Iraq,
Jordan, Kuwait. Lebanon, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Mauritania. Pakistan,
Saudi Arabia, the Syrian Arab Republic. Tunisia and Yemen, subsequently joined
by Morocco and the United Arab Emirates, introduced a draft resolution
(AIC.2/471L.29) enti.tled "Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli
settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory, including
Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab population of the Syrian
Golan"« which read as fo ~lows :

"The General Assembly,

"Taking no te Q f Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/57 of
31 Ju1y 1992,

"Reca:l.ling its resolution 46/199 of 20 December 1991,

""Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and
affirminq the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force,
and Securi ty Counci.l resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 Novemb.er 1967 and
497 (1981) of 17 December 1981,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47 1717 I Add. 1
English
Page 6

"Recalling also Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of
1 March 1980 and other resolutions affirming the applicability of the
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time
of War, of 12 August 1949, !I to the occupied Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since
1967,

"Expressing its concern at the establishment by Israel, the
occupying Power, of settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory and
other Arab territories occupied since 1967, including the sett~ements of
new immigrants therein,

"1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General; ,2./

"2. Deplores the establishment of settlements by Israel in the
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied since 1967, and regards the settlements as unlawful and wi thout
any legal basis;

"3. Recognizes the economic and social repercussions of the Israeli
settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied by Israel since 1967, and on the Arab
population of the Syrian Golan;

"4. Strongly deplores Israel's practices in the occupied
Palestinian territory and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, in
particular its confiscation of land, its appropriation of water
resources, its depletion of other economic resources and its di.splacement
and deportation of the population of those territories;

"5. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the Palestinian people and
the population of the Syrian Golan to their natural and al~ other
economic resources, and regards any infringement thereof as being wi thout
any legal validity;

"6. Reguests the Secretary-General to submit to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session, through the Economic and Social
Council, a report on the progress made in the implementation of the
present resolution."

16. At the 50th meeting, held on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the
Committee, Miss Maymouna Diop (Senegal), informed the Committee of the results
of the informal consultations held on the draft resolution and drew the
Committee I s attention to a revised draft resolution (A/C.2147/L.29/Rev.l)
submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution A/C. 2 1471L. 29.

,!I United Nations, Treaty Series, voL 75, No. 973.

~I A/47/294-E/1992/84.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A../47 1717 I A:dd.1
English
page 7

17, The Committee was i.nformed that the draft resolution had. nO'programme!
budget implications.

18, Before the adoption. of the revised draft resolution, statements were made
by the representatives of Israel,. the United States of America and the Ru:\sian
Federation (see AlC. 2147 /SR. 50).

::1.9. At its 50th meeting, th.e Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/471L.29/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 101 to 3, with 5 abstentions (sl!e
:para. 52, draft resolution I II). The voting was as follows: Q/

In favQur:

Against:

Afghanistan, A.lger ia, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, BUlgaria,
Burkina Fa.so, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, ColombHl,
Costa Bica., Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvaaor, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghalha,
Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungar;y,
India, Indones ia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Lib:1an
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Norway I Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
:Romania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, '1:ogo,
'Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Ar ab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United RepUblic of Tanzania, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Israel, Micronesia (Federated States of), United States of
America.

Abstaining: Belarus, Croatia, Marshall Islands, Russian e'ederation,
Uruguay.

20. After th.e adoptio:n of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
European Conununity, and Canada. The Observer for Palestine also made a
statement (see A/C.2147/SR. 50).

Q/ Subsequently the representatives of Kuwait, Jordan, Sri Lanka and
Zambia i.nformed the Commit tee that had their delegations been present during
the voti.ng, they would have voted i.n favour of the draft resolution.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI 471717 I Add. 1
English
Page 8

E. Draft resolutions A/C.2/47/L.34 and L.66

21. At the 40th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Pakistan (on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77), introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 2/47 /L.34) entitled
"Implications of the application of the new criteria for identifying the least
developed countries in the implementation of the Programme of Action for the
Least Developed Countries for the 1990s", which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 45/206 of 21 December 1990" in which it
endorsed the Paris Declaration and the Programme of Action for the Least
Developed Countries for the 1990s adopted by the Second United Nations
Conference on the Least Developed Countries, resolution 46/156 of
19 December 1991 on the implementation of the Programme of Action and
resolution 46/206 of 20 December 1991 on the Report of the Committee for
Development Planning: criteria for identifying the least developed
countries;

"Reaffirming 'A New Partnership for Development: The Cartagena
Commi tment', 1/ adopted by the United Nations Conference on Tr ade and
Development at its eighth session,

"Reiterating the need for strengthening international cooperation
for sustainable development in order to support and complement the
efforts of the least developed countries,

"Noting the donors I determination, contained in the Cartagena
Commitment, to implement the commitments that they have undertaken in the
Programme of Action with regard to official development assistance to the
forty-one countries included in the list of the least developed countries
at the time of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries,

"Noting that the Trade and Development Board, at the first part of
its thirty-ninth session, conducted the second annual review of progress
in the implementation of the Programme of Action and also reviewed the
question of appropriate adjustment of commitments in respect of targets
and levels of official development assistance to least developed
countries in the light of the addition of six countries to the list of
least developed countries following the Second Uni ted Nations Conference
on the Least Developed Countries,

2/ TD/364, part one, sect. A.

/,' ,

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47 /717 I Add. 1
English
Page 9

"Noting also that at the above-mentioned session of the Trade and
Development Board, donors expressed their intention to examine the
effects that the countries newly added to that list of least developed
countries were having on the additional resource requirements of the
least developed country group as a whole,

,,~. Reaffi rIDs that the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countri.es for the 1990s should be implemented fully, effectively and on a
timely basis by all parti.es;

"2. Also reaffirms that a significant and substantial increase in
the agqregate level of external support should be made available to the
least developed countries I taking into account those countries recently
added to the list of the least developed countries;

"3. Invites the Governing Council of the United Nations Development
Prograrrune to consider, at its session in February 1993, the allocation of
indicative plann.ing figures to the least developed countries in the light
of additions to the list of the least developed countries;

"4. Nelcomes the outcome of the second annual review of progress in
the implementation of the Programme of Action undertaken by the Trade and
Development Board at the first part of its thirty-ninth session, and in
particu.lar the Board' s decision, inter ali~, that at the second part of
its thirty-ninth session it should:

" (a) Revis'W in depth two special issues, namely, (i) domestic and
external re source mobilization, including the debt situation and
management, and (H) improvement of trading opportunities;

11 (b) Consider the qu.estion of appropriate adjustments of the
commitments as requested by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development at its eighth session;

.. 5. Inyites the least developed countries and their development
partners, i.ncluding international organizations and financial
institutions, to participate adequately and effectively at the second
part 0 f the thi rty-ninth session of the Trade and Development Board, to
be held at Geneva from 15 to 26 March 1993;

.. 6. Urges donors to consider providing, pursuant to its resolution
46/156 of 19 December 1991, extrabudgetary resources to facilitate
participation of representati.ves of least developed countries at the
future reviews of the Programme of Action at the Trade and Development
~oard;

to 7. Regue sts the Secretary-General to submit to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session a report on the implementation of
the present resolution, inclUding an assessment of the outcome of the
third annual review of the Programme of Action by the Trade and
Developmen t Board. If

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/4717171Add.l
English
Page 10

22. At the 48th meeting, on 7 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Miss Maymouna Diop (Senegal), introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.66),
which she submitted on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resolution A/C.2/47/L.34.

23. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution had no programme
budget implications.

24. At the 48th meeting, the representative of Japan orally revised the draft
resolution in operative paragraph 5 by inserting the word "notes" between
"and" and "the Board's decision".

25. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/47/L.66, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 52, draft
resolution IV).

26. In the light of the adoption of drdft resolution AlC.2147/L.66, draft
resolution A/C.2/47/L.34 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

F. Draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.39

27. At the 42nd meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Belgium, also
on behalf of Algeria, Angola, Barbados, Belarus. Benin, Colombia,
Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Egypt, Guatemala, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Lesotho,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, MalL Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Nigeria,
Peru, Philippines, Senegal, Spain, Sri Lanka. Turkey, the United Repub1ic of
Tanzania and Zaire, subsequently joined by Bangladesh, Namibia and the Sudan,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 2147 /L.39) entitled "Summi t on the Economic
Advancement of Rural Women".

28. At the 45th meeting, on 24 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Miss Maymouna Diop (Senegal), informed the Committee of the results of
informal consultations held on the draft resolution and revised it as
follows: the word "President" was changed to "sponsor" in the sixth
preambular paragraph.

29. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution had no programme
budget implcations.

30. At its 45th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/47/L.39, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 52, draft
resolution V).

/ ....

»

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47 1717 I Add. 1
English
Page 11

G. Draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.40 and Rev.1

31. At the 43rd meeting ... on 19 November, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77 ... China and Ja:pan, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.40)
entitled "Impact of the recent evolution of East-West relations on the growth
of the worl d economy... in part i cular on the economic growth and deve lopment of
the developing countries" as well as on international economic cooperation",
W'hich read as folloW's:

•• The Gener al A.S semb ~y,

I·Reaffirmi.ng its resolution 5-18/3 of 1 May 1990, the annex to which
contains the Dec1ara.tion on International Economic Cooperation, in
particular the Revi taliz ation of Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Coun.tries, as well as its resolution 45/199 of
21 December 1990, the an.nex to which contains the International
Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade,

uRecal.ling its reso 1utions 45/182 of 21 December 1990 and 46/202 of
20 Decembe r 1991,

UTaki ng note 0 f the report of the Secretary-General on the impact of
the evolution of East-West relations on global growth and development, .IV
which" inter alia, indicates that the Central and Eastern European
countries and the Commonwealth of Independent States will need
international assis tance over a longer period of time and on a much
J..arger scale than originally envisaged and that preferential access
obtained by many of these CQuntr ies to western markets may harm the
interests of developing countries,

"Taki ng note 0 f the Declaration of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs
of the member States of the Group of 77, adopted on the occasion of their
sixteenth annua.l meeting, held in New York on 1 October 1992, in which
the Ministers recaJ..led the conclusions of the Special High-level Meeting
of the Economic and Social Council, .2.1

"l. Take s note of the repo rt of the Secretary-General on the impact
of the evo 1ution of East-Wes t relations on global growth and development;

"2. Urge s the developed countries and multilateral financial
insti tutions to ensure that the resources allocated to Central and
Easte rn European countr ies and the Commonwealth of Independent States do

8/ A/47 /403.

9/ A/47/499, annex.

/ .....

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI4 7 I 71 7 I Add. 1
English
Page 12

not reduce or divert official development assistance allocated to the
developing countries and that the needs of those countries should be met
from new and additional resources;

"3. Requests the Special Committee on Preferences of the Uni ted
Nations Conference on Trade and Development to review at its next session
the impact on the trade of developing countries of the preferentia:L
treatment given to Central and Eastern European countries and the
Commonwealth of Independent States and requests the Secretary-General of
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to submit a report
thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;

"4. Urges the international community, as well as the United
Nations system, to assist developing countries whose economies have been
adversely affected by the recent changes in their economic re1ations with
Central and Eastern European countr ies and the Commonweal th of
Independent States to adapt to those changes;

"5. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue to monito r the
impact of the recent evolution of East-West relations on the growth of
the world economy, in particular on the economic growth and development
of the developing countries, as well as on international economic
cooperation and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session, including an assessment of the progress made in the
implementation of the present resolution."

32. At the 50th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Commi. ttee,
Miss Maymouna Piop (Senegal), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on the draft resolution and drew the Committee's
attention to a revised draft resolution (A/C. 2147 /L.40/Rev .1), entitled
"Impact of the recent evolution of the economies in transition on the growth
of the world economy, in particUlar on the economic growth and development of
the developing countries, as well as on international economic cooperati.on",
submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution A/C. 2/47 /L.40.

33. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution had no programme
budget implications.

34. At its 50th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AIC. 2147 IL.40/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 52, draft resolution VI).

H. Draft resolutions A/C.2147/L.42 and L.73

35. At the 43rd meeting, on 19 November, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77, China and Japan, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2147/L.42)
entitled "International Conference on Population and Development", which read
as follows:

/., .

•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/717/Add.1
English
Page 13

"The Genera.l As semb1y,

"Recal J.ing its reso1utions 3344 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974 on the
World Population Conference, 39/228 of 18 December 1984 on the
International Conference on Population, 44/210 of 22 December 1989 on
future needs in the field of popuJ.ation, including the development of
resource requirements for international population assistance, S-18/3 of
1 May J..990, containi.ng the Declaration on International Economic
Cooperation., in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and
Development of the Developing Countries, 45/199 of 21 December 1990,
containing the :International Development Strategy for the Fourth United
Nations Development Decade, 45/206 of 21 December 1990 on the
implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries for the 1990s and 45/216 of 21 December 1990 on population and
development,

tlReca1ling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/91 of
26 July 1989, i.n which the Council decided, in principle, to convene in
1994, under the auspices of the United Nations, an international meeting
on population,

··Reca:J..ling fur ther Council resolution 1991/93 of 26 July 1991, in
which the Council decided tha.t the international meeting on population
should be called the International Conference on Population and
Development,

"Endorsing ful J.y the objectives of the Conference as decided in
Council resolution 1991/93, and its overall theme of population,
sustained economic growth and sustainable development, as stated in the
same resol utioXl.,

"Recognizing the important contribution that regional conferences
will play in preparations for the Conference, particUlarly through
evaluation and updating of regional population plans of action,

"Noting wi th satisfaction the appointment, by the Secretary-General
of the United Nations, o£ the Executive Director of the United Nations
Population Fund as Secretary-General of the International Conference on
Population and DeveJ.opment, and of the Director of the Population
Division 0 f the Department of Economic and Social Development of the
United Nations Secretariat as the Deputy Secretary-General of the
Conference I

"Emphasizing the national sovereignty of all countries in
formu~ating, adopti.ng and implementing policies relating to population,
mindful of their cultures, values and traditions, as well as of their
soci.a~, economic and po1itical conditions, and consistent with human
rights and with the responsibilities of individuals, couples and families,

/ ...

<..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI 471717 I Add. 1
English
Page 14

"Conscious of the important contribution made by research and
information dissemination institutions to a cl.ear understanding of the
interrelationship of population and development,

"Recognizing the importance of the outcome of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development in the preparations for the
International Conference on Population and Development,

"1. Emphasizes the need to increase and strengthen the level of
awareness of population issues in the international agenda and their
treatment as an integral part of development;

"2. Also emphasizes the need for comprehensive national population
policies based on national priorities and compatible with sustained
economic growth and sustainable development;

"3. Welcomes Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/37 of
30 July 1992, in which the Council decided to convene the International
Conference on Population and Development in Cairo from 5 to
13 September 1994;

"4. Accepts with deep appreciation the generous offer of the
Government of Egypt to act as host to the Conference;

"5. Recommends that the Conference be convened at the ministerial
level;

"6. Invites the Council, at its organizational session for 1993, to
designate the host country to the Conference, Egypt, ex officio a member
of the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee;

"7. Also invites the Council, at its organizational session for
1993, taking fully into consideration the views expressed during the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, to consider the
possibili ty of adjusting the proposed timing and duration of the second
and third sessions of the Preparatory Committee for: the Conference so as
to ensure adequate intergovernmental preparati.ons for the Conference;

"8. Calls upon all organs, organizations and programmes of the
United Nations system, as well as other relevant intergovernmental
organizations, to contribute fully to the preparations for the Conference;

"9. Welcomes the decision of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations to ensure the necessary coordination of contributions within the
United Nations system through the Administrative Committee on
Coordination;

"10. Invites all States to take an active part in the preparations
for the Conference and to promote broad-based national preparatory
processes;

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471717/Add.l
English
Page 15

"11. Recogn.izes the important contr ibution that relevant and
concerned non-governmental organizations can make to the preparations for
the Conference, particularly those organizations from the developing
countries, according to agreed practices;

"12. Stresses the significance of the various regional perspectives
that exist on is sues of population and development, and welcomes in this
context the convening by the regional commissions and the United Nations
Population Fund of regional population conferences, whose outcome will
contribute significantly to the preparations for the International
Conference on Population and Development;

01 13. Notes the establishment of voluntary trust funds for support of
the Conference and for the purpose of assisting developing countries, in
particular the :least developed among them, to participate fully and
effectively in the Conference and in its preparatory process;

"14. Expre sses its appreciation to contributors to the funds, and
invites Governments in a position to do so to contribute gen~rously to
those funds;

"15. Calls upon the Secretary-General of the Conference to continue
to make every effort to raise extrabudgetary resources for the Conference;

01 16. Reque sts the Secretary-General of the Conference, in the light
of the need for thorough preparations for the Conference, to ensure the
timely circulation of the documentation for .the Preparatory Committee.:

"17. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to take
appropriate steps, as part of the preparatory process, to ensure that the
Conference and the issues to be discussed thereat are widely publicized;

01 18. Also requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in
close consultation with the Secretary-General of the Conference, to
submi t a progress report on the implementation of the present resolution
to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session through the Economic
and Social Council;

"19. Decides to include a separate item, entitled I International
Conference on Popul ation and Development'. in the provisional agenda of
the forty-eighth se ssion of the General Assembly."

36. At the 49th meeting, on 9 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Miss Maymouna D.iop (Senegal), introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 2/47 /L. 73),
~hich she submi tted on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resolution Ale. 2/47/L.42 •

37. At the same meeting-, statements were made by the representatives of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Luxembourg. The
Director of the Economic and Social Council Affairs and Interagency

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI 4 71717 I Add. 1
English
Page 16

Coordination of the Department of Economic and Social Development also made a
statement (see A/C.2/47/SR.49).

38. The Committee was informed that the draft resolution had no programme
budget implications.

39. At its 49th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.214 7 IL. 73
without a vote (see para. 52, draft resolution VIi).

40. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of Egypt (see A/C.2/47/SR.49).

41. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.73, draft
resolution A/C.2/47/L.42 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

I. Draft resolutions A/C.2147/L. 50 and L. 79

42. At the 45th meeting, on 24 November, the representative of Benin, on
behalf of the the African States, introduced a draft resolution
(Ale. 2/47 IL. 50) entitled "Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa,
1991-2000", which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 44/237 of 22 December 1989, in which it
proclaimed the period 1991-2000 the Second Industrial Development Decade
for Africa, and its decision 46/458 of 20 December 1991 on the programme
for the Second Decade,

"Recalling also its resolution 461151 of 18 December ~991, in which
it adopted the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in
the 19905, which identifies the Second Decade as a major programme for
African regional economic integration,

"Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 1991/81 of
26 July 1991 on the Second Decade,

"Stressing the need to integrate the programme for the Second Decade
into the overall framework of the Uni ted Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s, in particular the commitment of
African countries and the international community to promote domestic and
foreign direct investment in Africa, as reflected in the relevant
paragraphs of the New Agenda,

/., I

•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47 /717 I Add. 1
English
Page 17

"'Recalling the relevant provisions of Agenda 21, adopted by the
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de
Janeiro from 3 to 14 June ~992, 101

"'Considering resolution GC.4/8 of 22 November 1991 of the fourth
General Conference of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization, in which the General Conference adopted the programme for
the Second Decade as one of the top priority programmes of that
organization and recommended its adoption by the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session, through the Economic and Social Council at its
substantive session of 1992, 11/

"Considering also resolution 739 (XXVII) of 22 April ~992 of the
Conference of Ministers of the Economic Commission for Africa, 121 in
which the Conference of Ministers adopted the programme for the Second
Decade, and decision 1 (XXVII) of 22 April 1992, 131 in which the
Conference of Ministers recommended the adoption of the programme by the
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, through the Economic and
Social Council at its substantive session of 1992, and the provision to
the Economic Commission for Africa of adequate resources to enable it to
support the African countries and subregional organizations in the
implementation of their programmes for the Second Decade,

"Cognizant of the appeal made by the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity, in resolution
AHGICM/Res. 1399 (LVI) of 1 July 1992, to adopt, at its forty-seventh
sessi.on, the programme for the Second Decade, and of the endorsement by
the Assemhly of Heads of State and Government of the programme,

"Considering Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/44 of
31 JUly 1992, in which the Council endorsed the programme and
recommended, inter alia, that the General Assembly, at its forty-seventh
session, adopt the programme,

"1. Adopts the programme for the Second Industrial Development
Decade for Africa, including the national, subregional and regional
components contained therein;

101 A/CONF.151/26 (vols. I, II and Corr.1 and III).

III See GC. 4/ INF • 4.

12/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 13 (E/1992133), chap. IV, sect. A.

131 Ibid., sect. B.

/ ...

,f';
,1 i

_hl,i ,r,;" b

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A./47/7l7/Add.l
English
Page, 18

"2. De~ to adjust the period for the programme for the Second
Decade, established in its resolution 44/237, to cover the years
1993-2002;

"3. I.s!,kes note of the efforts already undertaken in Africa to
establish a~ environment to attract domestic and foreign investment,
calls for fu,rther efforts in this regard and urges the international
community to take the necessary steps to encourage direct foreign
investl1'\ent and support the policy changes undertaken in African countries;

"4. UI'ges the African countries, financial institutions and
specialized :agencies of the United Nations system to adopt an integrated
approaoh to the implementation of the programme for the Second Decade,
taking full account of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s; 14/

"5. ~ the Director-General of the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization, the Executive Secretary of the Economic
Commission for Africa, the institutions and agencies of the United
Nations system and the African Stages and subregiona1 and regional
organizations to integrate the relevant provisions of Agenda 21, adopted
by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, in the
implementation of the Second Decade;

"6. Appeals to the international communi ty, particularly bilateral
and multilateral funding institutions, to increase significantly their
contributions to the industrial sector in African countries so as to
ensure the successful and sustained implementation of the programme for
the Second Decade;

"7. Urges international financial institutions, in particular the
World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the African Development
Bank, to ensure full support for the programme for the Second Decade and
the effective implementation of the programme at the national and
subregional levels;

"8. Decides to provide the Economic Commission for Africa with
adequate resources to enable it to assist African countries and
organizations effectively in the implementation of the programe for the
Second Decade;

"9. Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the
Director-General of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization, the relevant institutions and agencies of the United
Nations system and the African States and 5ubregiona1 and regional
organizations to undertake a mid-term evaluation of the implementation of

14/ Resolution 46/151, annex, sect. II.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47 /717 I Add .1
English
Page 19

the programme for the Second Decade, in 1998, and to submit a report
thereon to the Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, and also to submit
to the Assembly biennial progress reports on the implementation of the
present resolution."

43. At th.e 50th meeting, on 11 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Miss MaymounaDiop (Senegal), introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/471L.79),
which she submi. tted on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resolution Ale. 2/47 /L. 50.

44. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee read out a statement
on the programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see
AIC.2 /471SE.50) •

45. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AIC.2 /47/L. 79 W'ithout a vote (see para. 52, draft resolution VIII) •

45. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/47 /L. 79, draft
resol ution A/C. 2/47 IL. 50 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

J. Documents relating to the report of the Economic and
Social Council

47. At its 51st meeting, on 16 December, upon the proposal of the Chairman,
the Committee decided to recommend to the General Assembly that it take note
of the reports under item 12 on which no draft proposals had been submitted
(see para. 53, draft decision Il).

/ ....
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471717/Add.l
English
Page 20

K. ConsideratiQn of the draft biennial programme of work
of the Second Committee fQr 1993-1994

48. At the 51st meetinq, Qn 16 December, the Chai rman of the CQmmi ttee drew
the Committee I s attention to a note by the Secretariat, contained in document
A/C. 2/47/L. 80, which referred tQ the draft biennial prQgramme Qf work of the
SecQnd Committee for 1993-1994.

49. At the same meeting, the Secretary Qf the Committee made a statement (see
AlC. 2147 /SR. 51).

50. Also at the same meetinq, the representatives of Mauritania, Morocco and
Tunisia made statements and raised questiQns, and the Chairman responded to
questions (see A/C.2/47/SR.51).

51. At its 51st meeting, the CQmmittee decided to recQmmend to the General
Assembly that it defer further consideration of the draft biennial programme
of work of the Second Committee for 1993-1994 (see para. 53, draft
decision IH).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

52. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adQption of
the following:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Assistance to the Palestinian people

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/201 Qf 20 December 1991,

Taking into account the intifadah of the Palestinian people in the
occupied Palestinian territory against the Israeli occupatiQn, including
Israeli economic and social policies and practices,

Rejecting Israeli restrictions on external economic and social assistance
to the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory,

Concerned about the economic losses of the Palestinian people as a result
of the Gulf crisis,

Aware of the increasing need to provide economic and social assistance to
the Palestinian people,

Affirming that the Palestinian people cannQt develop their national
economy as long as the Israeli occupation persists,

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI 47/717 I Add. 1
EngliSh
Page 21

Welcoming: the Middle East peace process started at Madrid on
30 October 1991 and expressing the hope that, despite the difficulties, all
sides wil1 pur sue this path,

1. Take s note of the report of the Secretary-General; 151

2. Expresses its appreciation to the States, United Nations bodies and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations that have provided
assistance to the Palestini.an people;

3. Requests the international community, -the United Nations system and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to sustain and increase
their assistance to the Palestinian people, in close cooperation with the
Palestine Liberation Organi.zation, taking into account the economic losses of
the Palestinian people as a result of the Gulf crisis;

4. Urges the Government of Israel to accept de iure applicability of
the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time
of War, of 12 August 1949, 161 to all territories occupied by Israel since
1967 and to abide scrupulously by the provisions of that Convention;

5. ~ for treatment on a transit basis of Palestinian exports and
imports passing th.rough neighbouring ports and points of exit and entry;

6. Also calls for the granting of trade concessions and concrete
preferential measures for Palestinian exports on the basis of Palestinian
certificates of or igin;

7. Further calls for the immediate lifting of Israeli restrictions and
obstacles hindering the implementation of assistance projects by the United
Nations Development Programme, other United Nations bodies and others
providinq economic and social assistance to the Palestinian people in the
occupied Pale s tini an terr i tory ;

8. Reiterates its call for the implementation of development projects
in the occupied Palestinian territory, inclUding the projects mentioned in its
resolution 39/223 of 1.8 December 1984;

9. ~ for facilitation of the establishment of Palestinian
deve~opment banks in the occupied Palestinian territory, with a view to
promotinq investment, production, employment and income therein;

12/ A/4 7 /212 -EI1992154.

16/ Uni ted Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No, 973.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



<,:

A/47/717/Add.1
English
Page 22

10. Recognizes the need for convening a seminar on assistance to the
Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory, and, in this regard,
suggests to the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the
Palestinian People to consider, in its programme for 1992-1993, convening such
a seminar, taking into account the assistance needs of the Palestinian people
in the light of the developments in the region;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the
progress made in the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Privatization in the context of economic restructuring,
economic growth and sustainable development

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolution 8-18/3 of 1 May 1990, containing the
Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the
Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing Countries,
and noting its resolution 45/199 of 21 December 1990, containing the
International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development
Decade, as well as other relevant United Nations resolutions,

Recalling the Cartagena Commitment adopted by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development at its eighth session 171 and Trade and
Development Board decision 398 (XXXVII!) of 7 May 1992, 18/ which, inter alia,
established the Ad Hoc Working Group on Comparative Experiences wi th
Privitization, and looking forward to its contribution,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/36 of
30 July 1992 on privatization and foreign investment in the context of
economic restructuring,

Recognizing the sovereign right of each State to decide on the
development of its private and public sectors, taking into account the
comparative advantages of each sector,

Noting that the private sector plays a positive role in mobilizing
resources and promoting economic growth and sustainable development,

171 TD/364, part one, sect. A.

III See A/47/15 (vol. I), sect. II.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/4 7 /717 I Add. 1
English
Page 23

Noting also that many countries are attaching growing importance to the
privatization of enterprises, demonopolization and administrative deregulation
of economic activities, as well as market-oriented reforms, increased
competition, elimination of price-distorting mechanisms and open markets, all
as a means to increase economic efficiency, growth and sustainable
development, in the context of their economic restructuring policies,

Noting further the difficulties these countries encounter in those
policies and that various practical modalities and approaches towards
privitization can be considered by them,

1. Welcomes the activities being undertaken by relevant organs,
a rganizations and bodies of the United Nations system in supporting national
efforts aimed at increasing economic efficiency, growth and sustainable
development through privatization, demonopolization, administrative
dere9'u1ation of economic activities and other relevant policies, and urges
t.l1em:

(a) To support, when requested, the national efforts of countries in
i.mplementing pr ivatization, demonopolization, administrative deregulation and
other relevant policies in the context of their economic reforms and the
o:pening of their economies;

(b) To strengthen their communication and cooperation in supporting the
n..ational efforts of countries in privatizing enterprises, demonopolizing and
deregulating their economic activities and implementing other relevant
policies, and invites the Secretary-General to give due attention to
coordination of the United Nations system in this field, through, inter alia,
the Economic and Social Council and other relevant United Nations bodies;

(c) In implementing their respective mandates, to take into account the
'W'ork already undertaken by the organs, organizations and bodies of the Uni ted
Nations system in order to maximize the efficiency of the United Nations
system, mindful of the ongoing process of restructuring the system;

2. Calls upon interested Member States to enhance the exchange of
information among themselves and all relevant organs, organizations aud bodies
of the United Nations system on their activities, programmes and experiences
concerning privatization, demonopolization, administrative deregulation and
other relevant policies in order to increase the efficiency and coordination
of technical cooperation in this field;

3. Reguests the Secretary-General to improve, within existing
resources, research activities on all areas of privati2ation,
demonopolization, administrative deregulation and other relevant policies to
enhance cooperation with national and international research institutions and
to incJ.ude all pertinent findings in rolevant United Nations publications,
i DelUding the World Economic Survey;

/ ...

.'

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47I7l7/Add.l
English
Page 24

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to include in his report to be
submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, pursuant to its
resolution 46/166 of 19 December 1991 on entrepreneurship, recommendations for
action by the United Nations system in support of the present resolution.

. DRAFT RESOLUTI ON I I I

Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli settlements
on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab

population of the Syrian Golan

The General Assembly,

Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/57 of
31 July 1992,

Recalling its resolution 46/199 of 20 December 1991,

Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.t' affirming
the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force and recalling
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967 and 497 (1981) of
17 December 1981,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of 1 MarchJ.980 and
other resolutions affirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention
relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August 1949, 19/ to the occupied Palestinian territory, inclUding
Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967,

Expressing its concern at the establishment by Israel, the occupying
Power, of settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory and other Arab
territories occupied since 1967, including the settlements of new immigrants
therein,

Welcoming the Middle East peace process started at Madrid on
30 October 1991 and recogll~Z1ng that a complete freeze of settlement activity
would significantly enhance the prospects for progress in this process,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General; 20/

19/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.

20/ A/47/294-E/1992/84.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471717/Add.1
English
Page 25

2. Deplores the establishment of settlements by Israel in the
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied since 1967, and regards the settlements as illegal and an obstacle to
peace;

3. Recognizes the economic and social repercussions of the Israeli
settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory, including
Jerusalem, occupied by Israel since 1967, and on the Arab population of the
Syrian Golan;

4. Strongly deplores Israel's practices in the occupied Palestinian
territory and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, in particular its
confiscation of land, its appropriation of water resources, its depletion of
other economic resources and its displacement and deportation of the
population of those territories;

5. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the Palestinian people and the
population of the Syrian Golan to their natural and all other economic
resources, and regards any infringement thereof as being without any legal
validity;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session, through the Economic and Social Council, a report on
the progress made in the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Implications of the application of the new criteria for
identifying the least developed countries in the
implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least

Developed CQuntries for the 1990s

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 45/206 of 21 December 1990, in which it endorsed
the Paris Declaration and the PrQgranune of Action for the Least DevelQped
Countries for the 1990s, adopted by the Second United Nations Conference on
the Least DevelQped Countries, resolution 46/156 of 19 December 1991 on the
implementation of the Programme of Action and resQlution 46/206 Qf
20 December 1991 on the repQrt of the Committee fQr Development Planning:
criteria for identifying the least developed countries,

Reaffirming "A New Partnership for Development: The Cartagena
Commitment", 211 adQpted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development at its eighth session,

211 TD/364, part Qne, sect. A.

I . •.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



"

11./471717 I Add. 1
English
Page 26

Reaffirming also that the least developed countries have the primary
responsibility for the formulation and effective implementation of national.
policies and priorities for their growth and development, and should continue
to implement the commitments they undertook at the Paris Conference and that
the international community, in particular the donor countries, should
implement fully and expeditiously their commitments in all areas as set out in
the Programme of Action,

Reiterating the need for strengthening international cooperation for
sustainable development in order to support and complement the efforts of the
least developed countries,

Noting the donors I determination, contained in the Cartagena Commitment,
to implement the commitments that they have undertaken in the Programme of
Action with regard to official development assistance to the forty-one
countries included in the list of the least developed countries at the time of
the Second United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries,

Noting also that the Trade and Development Board, at the first part of
its thirty-ninth session, conducted the second annual review of progress in
the implementation of the Programme of Action and also reviewed the question
of appropriate adjustment of commitments in respect of targets and levels of
official development assistance to the least developed countries in the light
of the addition of six countries to the list of the least developed countries
following the Second United Nations Conference on the Least Developed
Countries,

Noting further that at the above-mentioned session of the Trade and
Development Board donors expressed their intention to examine the effects that
the countries newly added to the list of the least developed countries were
having on the additional resource requirements of the least developed country
group as a whole,

1. Reaffirms that the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries for the 1990s should be implemented fully, effectively and on a
timely basis by all parties;

2. Also reaffirms that all least developed countries should continue to
enhance the implementation of national policies and measures in line wi th the
Programme of Action, including through macroeconomic policies conducive to
long-term, sustained growth and sustainable development, the promotion of
individual initiative and broad-based popular participation in the development
process, the enhancement of human and institutional capacities and the
expansion and modernization of the economic base and that their development
partners should effectively and expeditiously implement the commitments
undertaken or the measures proposed in the Programme of Action in all areas of
international support, including official development assistance, debt relief
and external trade;

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471717/Add.l
English
Page 27

3. Further reaffirms that a significant and substantial increase in the
aggregate level of external support should be made available to the least
developed countr ies l taking into account those countries recently added to the
list of the least developed countries;

4. Takes nQte Qf decision 92/30 of 26 May 1992 of the Governing Council
of the United Nations Development Programme concerning adjustment of the
a~locatiQn of indicative planning figures to the least developed countries in
the light of the additions to the list of the least developed countries; 22/

5. WelcQmes the outcome of the second annual review of progress in the
implementation of the Programme of Action undertaken by the Trade and
Development Board at the first part of its thirty-ninth session, and notes the
Board's decision, inter alia, that at the second part of its thirty-ninth
session it shou1d:

(a) Review in depth two special issues, namely, (i) domestic and
external re source mobilization, including the debt situation and management,
and (ii) improvement of trading opportunities;

(b) Consider the question of appropriate adjustments of the commitments
as requested by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its
eighth sess ion, taking into account the views expressed and the decisions made
at the first part of the thirty-ninth session of the Trade and Development
Board;

6. Inyites the least developed countries and their development
partners, including international organizations and financial institutions, to
participate adequately and effectively at the second part of the thirty-ninth
session of the Trade and Development Board, to be held at Geneva from 15 to
26 March 1993:

7. Urge~ dQnors to consider providing, pursuant to its resolution
46/156,. extrabudgetary resources to facilitate the participation of
representatives of the least developed countries at the future reviews of the
Programme 0 f ActiQn by the Trade and Development Board;

8 _ Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session a report on the implementation of the present
resQlution, inc~uding an assessment of the outcome of the third annual review
of the PrQgramme Qf Action by the Trade and Development Board.

u/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement NQ, 8 (E/1992/28), annex I.

I •.•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/411717/Add.1
English
Page 2B

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Summit on the Economic Advancement of Rural Women

The G~neral Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 1991/64 and 1992/53 on
the Summit on the Economic Advancement of Rural Women,

Recognizing the critical role of rural women as food producers and
architects of household food security,

Noting with deep concern the continuing rise in the number of rural women
living in poverty,

Reaffirming its commitment to helping to improve the living conditions of
rural women,

Welcoming the holding of the Summit on the Economic Advancement of Rural
Women at Geneva on 25 and 26 February 1992, with the participation of a large
number of First Ladies and high-level delegations,

Expressing its appreciation to the sponsor of the Summit and the core
group of First Ladies who launched the initiative to convene the Summit, as
well as to the International Fund for Agricultural Development and other
institutions that provided support for it,

L Welcomes the adoption by the Summit on the Economic Advancement of
Rural Women of the Geneva Declaration for Rural Women; 23/

2. Urges all States to work for the achievement of the goals endorsed
in the Geneva Declaration;

3. Urges all organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system to take into account the goals of the Geneva Declaration in carrying
out their programmes, and invites the relevant governing bodies to consider
the adoption of specific measures, within their respective fields of
competence, with a view to meeting the special needs of rural women in the
light of the Geneva Declaration.

£al A/47/308-E/1992/97, annex.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-
A/471717/Add.1
English
Page 29

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Impact of the recent evolution of the economies in transition
on the growth of the world economy, in particular on the
economic growth and development of the developing countries,

as well as on international economic cooperation

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolutions 8-18/3 of 1 May 1990, the annex to which
contains the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular
the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing
Countries, and 45/199 of 21 December 1990, the annex to which contains the
International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development
Decade, as well as the Cartagena Commitment, adopted by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development at its eighth session, 241

Recalling its resolutions 45/182 of 21 December 1990 and 46/202 of
20 December 1991,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the impact of the
eVOlution of East-West relations on global growth and development, £21

Taking note also of the Declaration of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs
of the States members of the Group of 77 adopted OD the occasion of their
sixteenth annual meeting, held in New York on 1 October 1992, in which the
Ministers recalled the conclusions of the Special High-level Meeting of the
Economic and Social Council, 1.2./ held at Geneva on 4 and 5 July 1991,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the impact of
the evolution of East-West relations on global growth and development; MI

2. ~ the developed countries and multilateral financial
institutions to continue to ensure that the resources allocated to the
economies in transition do not reduce or divert official development
assistance allocated to the developing countries;

3, Calls upon the international community to consider assisting the
developing countries whose economies have been most affected by the changes in
their economic relations with the economies in transition, in order to adapt
to those changes;

241 See TD/364, part one, sect. A.

1,5.1 A/4 7/403 .

261 A/47/499, annex.

I . ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



$

AI47/717 I Add. 1
English
Page 30

4. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue to review and analyse in
close consultation and coordination with the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development the impact of the evolution of the economies in
transition on the growth of the world economy, in particular on the economic
growth and development of the developing countries, as well as on
international economic cooperation and to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session a report containing, inter alia, an assessment of the
progress made in the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

International Conference on Population and Development

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3344 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974 on the World
Population Conference, 39/228 of 18 December 1984 on the International
Conference on Population, 44/210 of 22 December 1989 on future needs in the
field of population, including the development of resource requirements for
international population assistance, S-18/3 of 1 May 1990, the annex to which
contains the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular
the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing
Countries, 45/199 of 21 December 1990, the annex to which contains the
International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development
Decade, 45/206 of 21 December 1990 on the implementation of the Programme of
Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, 45/216 of
21 December 1990 on population and development and 40/108 of 13 December 1985
on the implementation of the Nairobi Forward-looking Strategies for the
Advancement of Women,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/91 of
26 July 1989, in which the Council decided, in principle, to convene in 1994, I
under the auspices of the Uni ted Nations, an international meeting on_
population,

Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 1991/93 of
26 July 1991, in which the Council decided that the international meeting on
population should thenceforth be called the International Conference on
Population and Development,

Endorsing fully the objectives of the Confet"ence as decided in Economic
and Social Council resolution 1991/93, and its overall theme of population,
sustained economic growth and sustainable development, as stated in that
resolution,

Recognizing the important contribution that regional conferences will
play in preparations for the Conference, particularly through evaluation and
updating of regional population plans of action,

/ . "
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47 1717 1Add. 1
English
Page 31

Noting with satisfaction the appointment by the Secretary-General of the
United Nations of the Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund
as Secretary-General of the International Conference on Population and
Development, and of the Director of the Population Division of the Department
of Economic and Social Development of the United Nations Secretariat as the
Deputy Secretary-General of the Conference,

Emphasizing the national sovereignty of all countries in formulating,
adopting and implementing policies relating to population, mindful of their
cultures, values and traditions, as well as of their social, economic and
political conditions, and consistent with human rights and with the
responsibilities of individuals, couples and families,

Conscious of the important contribution made by research and information
dissemination institutions to a clear understanding of the interrelationship
of population and development,

Recognizing the importance of the outcome of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, including those sections of
Agenda 21 27/ concerning population, in the preparations for the International
Conference on Population and Development,

1. Emphasizes the need for comprehensive national population policies
based on national priorities and compatible with sustained economic growth and
sustainable development;

2. Also emphasizes the need to increase and strengthen the level of
awareness of population issues in the international agenda and their treatment
as an integral part of sustained economic growth and sustainable development;

3. Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/37 of
30 July 1992, in which the Council decided to convene the International
Conference on Population and Development at Cairo from 5 to 13 September 1994;

4. Accepts with deep appreciation the generous offer of the Government
of Egypt to act as host to the Conference;

5. Recommends that the Conference be convened at the ministerial level;

6. Stresses the importance of the active participation of Member States
in the Preparatory Committee for the Conference and, in this context, invites
the Preparatory Committee at its second session to elect its bureau, with due
regard to equitable geographical representation;

27/ See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.15l/26, vols. I, II and
Corr.1, and III).

I . .•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47I7l7/Add.1
English
Page 32

7. Decides that the host country to the Conference, Egypt, shall be
ex officio a member of the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee;

8. Invites the Economic and Social Council, at its organizational
session for 1993, taking fully into consideration the views expressed during
the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, to consider the possibility
of adjusting the proposed timing and duration of the second and third sessions
of the Preparatory Committee for the Conference within existing budgetary
resources and without prejudice to the utilization of resources available
through voluntary contributions to the trust funds, taking fully into account
the need to ensure the success of the Conference in fulfilling its mandate and
for this purpose to ensure an adequate intergovernmental preparatory process
for it;

9. Calls upon all organs, organizations and programmes of the United
Nations system, as well as other relevant intergovernmental organizations, to
contribute fully to the preparations for the Conference;

10. Welcomes the decision of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
to ensure the necessary coordination of contributions within the United
Nations system through the Administrative Committee on Coordination;

11. . Invites all States to take an active part in the preparations for
the Conference and to promote broad-based national preparatory processes;

12. Recognizes the importance of the participation in the Conference and
its preparatory process of all relevant non-governmental organizations from
developed and developing countries;

13. Requests the Economic and Social Council at its organizational
session for 1993 to formulate and adopt modalities to ensure the participation
in and contribution to the Conference and its preparatory process of relevant
non-governmental organizations, in particular those from developing countries,
taking into account the procedures followed in the process for the Uni ted
Nations Conference on Environment and Development and the experiences gained
in this matter in previous United Nations population conferences;

14. Stresses the significance of the various regional perspectives that
exist on issues of population and development, and welcomes in this context
the convening by the regional commissions and the United Nations Population
Fund of regional population conferences, whose outcome will contribute
significantly to the preparations for the International Conference on
Population and Development;

15. Notes the establishment of voluntary trust funds for support of the
Conference and for the purpose of assisting developing countries, in
particular the least developed among them, to participate fully and
effectively in the Conference and in its preparatory process;

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI 471717 I Add. 1
English
Page 33

16. Expresses its appreciation to contributors to the funds, and invites
Governments in a position to do so to contribute generously to those funds;

17. Calls upon the Secretary-General of the Conference to continue to
make every effort to raise exr:rabudgetary resources for the Conference;

18. Reguests the Secretary-General of the Conference, in the light of
the need for thorough preparations for the Conference, to ensure the timely
circulation of the documentation for the regional conferences, expert meetings
and the Preparatory Committee;

19. Reguests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to take
appropriate steps, as part of the preparatory process, to ensure that the
Conference and the issues to be discussed at it are widely publicized;

20. Also requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in close
consultation with the Secretary-General of the Conference, to submit to the
General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, through the Economic and Social
Council, a progress report on the implementation of the present resolution;

21. Decides to include an agenda item entitled "International Conference
on Population and Development" in the provisional agenda of the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa, 1991-2000

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 44/237 of 22 December 1989, by which it
proclaimed the period 1991-2000 the Second Industrial Development Decade for
Africa, and its decision 46/458 of 20 December 1991 on the programme for the
Second Decade,

Recalling also its resolution 46/151 of 18 December 1991, by which it
adopted the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
~990s, which identifies the Second Decade as a major programme for African
regional economic integration,

Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 1991/81 of
26 July 1991 on the Second Decade,

Stressing the need to integrate the programme for the Second Decade into
the overall framework of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s, in particular the commitment of African countries and the
international community to promote domestic and foreign direct investment in
Africa, as reflected in the relevant paragraphs of the New Agenda,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/717/Add.l
English
Page 34

Recalling the relevant provisions of Agenda 21, adopted by the United
Nations ·Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro from
3 to 14 June 1992, ~/

Considering resolution GC.4/8 of 22 November 1991 of the fourth General
Conference of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, in which
the General Conference adopted the programme for the Second Decade as one of
the top priority programmes of that organization and recommended its adoption
by the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, through the Economic and
Social Council at its substantive session of 1992, 29/

Considering also resolution 739 (XXVII) of 22 April 1992 of the
Conference of Ministers of the Economic Commission for Africa, 30/ in which
the Conference of Ministers adopted the programme for the Second Decade, and
decision 1 (XXVII) of 22 April 1992, 31/ in which the Conference of Mini sters
reconunendedthe adoption of the programme by the General A.ssemb1y at its
forty-seventh session, through the Economic and Social Council at its
substantive session of 1992, and the provision to the Economic Commission for
Africa of adequate resources to enable it to support the A.frican countries and
subregiona1 organizations in the implementation of their programmes for the
Second Decade,

Taking into account the industrial development aspects of the Special
Programme for Africa of the World Bank,

Cognizant of the appeal made by the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity, in resolution
AHG/CM/Res. 1399 (LVI) of 1 July 1992, to the General Assembly, to adopt, at
its forty-seventh session, the programme for the Second Decade, and of the
endorsement of the programme by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government,

Considering Economic and Social Council resolution 1992/44 of
31 July 1992, in which the Council endorsed the programme and recommended,
inter alia, that the General Assembly, at its forty-seventh session, adopt the
programme,

28/ See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151126, vols. I, II and
Corr.l, and Ill).

29/ See GC.4/INF.4.

lQ/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 13 (E/1992/33), chap. IV, sect. A.

31/ Ibid., sect. B.

/ •• I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471717/Add.1
English
Page 35

1. Adopts the programme for the Second Industrial Development Decade
for Africa, incJ.uding the national, subregional and regional components
contained there in;

2. Decides to adj ust the period for the programme for the Second
Decade, establ1. shed in 1. ts resolution 441237, to cover the years 1993-2002;

3. Takes note of the efforts already undertaken in Africa to establish
an environment to attract domestic and foreign investment, calls for further
efforts in this regard and urges the international community to take the
necessary steps to encourage direct foreign investment and support the policy
changes undertaken in African countries;

4. Urges the Afri.can countries, financial institutions and specialized
agencies of the United Nations system to adopt an integrated approach to the
implementation of the programme for the Second Decade, taking full account of
the United Nati.ons New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 19905; 32/

5. Urges the Director-General of the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization, the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission
for Africa, the institutions and agencies of the United Nations system and the
African States and subregional and regional organizations to integrate the
relevant provis ions of Agenda 21, adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, 28/ in the implementation of the Second Decade;

6. Appeals to the international community, particularly bilateral and
multi1ateral funding institutions, to increase significantly their
contributions to the industr ial sector in African countries so as to ensure
the successful and sustained implementation of the programme for the Second
Decade;

7. Urges internationa1 financial institutions, in particular the World
Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the African Development Bank, to
ensure ful1 support for the programme for the Second Decade and the effective
implementation of the programme at the national and subregional levels;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Economic Commission
for Africa with adequate resources to enable it to assist African countries
and organi zations effectively in the implementation of the current programme
for the Second Decade;

9. Also requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the
Director-General of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization,
the relevant institutions and agencies of the United Nations system and the
African States and subregional and regional organizations to undertake a

~I Reso1ution 46/151, annex, sect. II.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/717/Add.l
English
Page 36

mid-term evaluation of the implementation of the programme for the Second
Decade, in 1998. and to submit a report thereon to the General Assembly at its
fifty-fourth session, and also to submit to the Assembly biennial progress
reports on the implementation of the present resolution.

53. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Implementation of section 11 of the annex to General Assembly
resolution 32/197 on the restructuring of the economic and

social sectors of the United Nations system

The General Assembly decides to defer until its forty-eighth session
consideration of the draft resolution entitled "Implementation of section II
of the annex to General Assembly resolution 32/197 on the restructuring of the
economic and social sectors of the United Nations system". 33/ "

DRAFT DECISION 11

Documents relating to the report of the
Economic and Social Council

The General Assembly decides to take note of the following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on products harmful to health and
the environment; ~/

(b) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the
Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund on the United Nations
Population Award; ~/

(c) Note by the Secretary-General submitting the report of the President
of the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly on the outcome of
consultations aimed at achieving an agreement on a code of conduct for
transnationa1 corporations. 36/

11/ See A/C.2/47/L.2.

34/ A/47/222-E/1992157' and Corr.l.

35/ A/47/33B.

36/ A/47/446.

/, ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



•

A/47 / 717 / Add. 1
English
Page 37

DRAFT DECISION III

~iennial programme of work for the Second Committee
for 1993-1994

The Genera1 Assembly decides to defer further consideration of the draft
bi.ennial progranune of work for the Second Committee for 1993-1994.

[I;:;:.
(Hj i
r{,j' -el'

~i'~1~j,w,'LU
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




