








































UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

11./47/692
4 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

UtlJ 1 U1992
Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 62

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDING DOCUMENT OF THE
TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly:

"( a) World Disarmament Campaign;

"(b) Regional confidence-building measures;

"(c) Nuclear-arms freeze:

"(d) Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons;

"(e) United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory
services programme;

"(f) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa,
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and
the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace,
Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean"

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session of the
General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 46/37 A, B, C, D
and E of 6 December 1991 and 46/37 F of 9 December 1991.

92-77590 Oa90P (E) 081292 / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 2

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October 1992, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 49 to 65, 68 and 142; and 67 and 69. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings,
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.l/47/PV.3-21). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings, from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.22-30) .. Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.1/47/PV.31-40).

4. In connection with item 62, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, the United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and
the Caribbean (A/47/359);

Cc) Report of the Secretary-General on the World Disarmament Campaign
(A/47/469);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on regional confidence-building
measures (A/47/511);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations disarmament
fellowship, training and advisory services programme (A/47/568);

(f) Letter dated 26 February 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/47/96-S/23645);

(g) Letter dated 30 June 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
Portugal to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/301);

(h) Letter dated 27 July 1992 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/47/347);

~/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27).

I •..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



&

A/47/692
English
Page 3

(i) Letter dated 17 AUgust 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Solomon Islands to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Final Communique of the
Twenty-third South Pacific Forum, held at Honiara, Solomon Islands, on 8 and
9 July 1992 (A/47/391);

(j) Letter dated 25 August 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/47/554);

(k) Letter dated 9 November 1992 from the Permanent Representative of
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/47/642-S/24780).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.2

5. On 21 October, Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, the Central African Republic,
Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe and
Zaire submitted a draft resolution entitled "Regional confidence-building
measures" (A/C.1/47/L.2), which was later also sponsored by France. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Cameroon at the
23rd meeting, on 2 November.

6. At the same meeting, the representative of Cameroon orally revised the
draft resolution by deleting the words "and 45/58 plO in the third preambular
paragraph.

7. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General sUbmitted
a statement on its programme budget implications (A/C.l/47/L.50).

8. At its 36th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.2 by a recorded vote of 132 to 1, with 2 abstentions
(see para. 25, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows: £1

--

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic
of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana,

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Mauritania indicated that it had
intended to' vote in favour of the draft resolution.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 4

Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg~ Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Armenia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.5

9. On 27 October, Argentina, Australia, Benin, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Cuba.
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
0[2, Lesotho, Liberia, Mali, Myanmar, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Pakistan, the Philippines, Senegal, Sweden, Togo, Venezuela, Viet Nam and
Zimbabwe submitted a draft resolution entitled "United Nations disarmament
fellowship, training and advisory services programme" (A/C.l/47/L.5), which
was later also sponsored by Algeria, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, China,
Czechoslovakia, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Japan, Kenya,
Mongolia, Namibia, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Uganda, the
United Republic of Tanzania and the United States of America. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Nigeria at the
24th meeting, on 3 November.

10. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.5 without a vote (see para. 25, draft resolution B).

C. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.24

11. On 30 October, Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Austria, the
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, the Comoros, the Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, the Democratic People's

/ •• I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



t

A/47/692
English
Page 5

Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Fiji, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala. Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana. Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Italy. Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, the Lao People's Democratic
RepUblic, Lesotho, Liberia, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, the Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of). Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambigue. Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, the Netherlands. New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, the
Republic of Korea, the RepUblic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovenia. Solomon
Islands, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland. Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the United Republic of Tanzania, the United States of
America, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia and
Zimbabwe submitted a draft resolution entitled "Treaty of Amity and
Cooperation in South-East Asia" (A/C,1/47/L.24L which was also later
sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Dominica, Estonia, Ethiopia. Haiti, Kazakhstan,
Kuwait, Malta, Niqer, Paraguay, Qatar, Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates.
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Singapore at the
28th meeting, on 10 November.

12. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.24 without a vote (see para. 25, draft resolution C).

D. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.26 and Rev.! and 2
and draft decision A/C.1/47/L.52

13. On 30 October, Bangladesh, China, the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea. Iran (Islamic RepUblic of), Mauritania (on behalf of the States Members
of the United Nations that are members of the Group of African States),
Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal. Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore. Sri Lanka,
Thailand, Togo and Uruguay (on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States)
submitted a draft resolution entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia and the. Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean"
(A/C.l/47/L.26), which was later also sponsored by Bolivia. Costa Rica,
Indonesia and Viet Nam. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41/60 D of
3 December 1986, 42/39 J of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 D of
7 December 1988 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa, 41/60 J of 3 December 1986, 42/39 K of
30 November 1987 and 43/76 H of 7 December 1988 on the United Nations

! ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



, ,

1../47/692
English
Page 6

Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America
and the Caribbean, 42/39 D of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 G of
7 December 1988 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia, and 44/117 F of 15 December 1989, 45/59 E of
4 December 1990 and 46/37 F of 9 December 1991 on the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and the
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in
Latin America and the Caribbean,

"Reaffirming its resolutions 37/100 F of 13 December 1982, 38/73 J
of 15 December 1983, 39/63 F of 12 December 1984, 40/94 1.. of
12 December 1985, 41/59 M of 3 December 1986, 42/39 E of
30 November 1987, 44/117 B of 15 December 1989, 45/58 M of
4 December 1990 and 46/36 F of 6 December 1991 on regional disarmament,

"Convinced that the initiatives and activities mutually agreed upon
by Member States of the respective regions aimed at fostering mutual
confidence and security, as well as the implementation and coordination
of regional activities under the World Disarmament Campaign, would
encourage and facilitate the development of effective measures of
confidence-building, arms limitation and disarmament in these regions,

"Welcoming the programme of activities carried out by the regional
centres, which have contributed substantially to understanding and
cooperation among the States in each particular region and have thereby
strengthened the role assigned to each regional centre in the areas of
peace, disarmament and development,

"Recognizing the need to provide the centres with financial
viability and stability so as to facilitate the effective planning and
implementation of their respective programmes of activities,

"Expressing its gratitude to the Member States and international
governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations that have
contributed to the trust funds of the three regional centres,

"Taking note with appreciation of the report of the
Secretary-General on the three regional centres, ~/ and of his efforts in
providing the necessary administrative measures to permit the effective
functioning of the three centres, which are an integral part of the
Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat,

"1. Encourages the regional centres to continue intensifying their
efforts, in accordance with their mandates, in promoting cooperation
among the States in their respective regions with a view to facilitating

~/ A./471359.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 7

the development of effective measures of confidence-building, arms
limitation and disarmament:

"2. Commends the Secretary-General for all the efforts he has made
to assist the regional centres in carrying out their programmes of
activities, and requests him to continue to provide all the necessary
support to the centres;

"3. Appeals once again to Member States, as well as to
international, governmental and non-governmental organizations and
foundations, to make voluntary contributions in order to strengthen the
programmes of activities of the regional centres and their effective
implementation:

"4. Decides once again that, to ensure the continued financial
viability of the centres, their administrative costs shall be financed
from the regular budget;

"5. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session on the implementation of the present
resolution. "

14. On 10 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/47/L.26/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by France. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Togo at the 30th meeting,
on 11 November. The revised draft resolution contained the following change:
operative paragraph 4 (see para. 13 above) was revised to read:

"4. Calls for the full implementation of its resolution 46/37 F of
9 December 1991".

15. On 13 November, the sponsors submitted a further revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/47/L.26/Rev.2), in which operative paragraph 4 was revised to read as
follows:

"4. Decides once again that, to ensure the continued financial
viability of the regional centres, their administrative costs shall be
financed from within the existing resources of the regular budget".

16. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C.l/47/L.26/Rev.2 (see A/C.1/47/PV.35).

17. On 16 November, Bangladesh, Bolivia, China, Costa Rica, the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, France, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Mauritania (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are
members of the Group of African States), Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan,
the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay (on behalf of the
States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of Latin
American and Caribbean States) and Viet Nam submitted a draft decision
entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa,

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-,
A/47/692
English
Page 8

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the
Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and
Development in Latin America and the Caribbean" (A/C.l/47/L.52). The draft
decision was introduced by the representative of Togo at the 35th meeting, on
17 November.

18. At its 36th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.l/47/L.52 without a vote (see para. 26, draft decision).

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/47/L.33

19. On 30 October, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Madagascar,
Malaysia and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution entitled "Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons" (A/C.l/47/L.33), which was later
also sponsored by Bhutan and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The
draft resolution was introduced by the representative of India at the
28th meeting, on 10 November.

20. At its 33rd meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/47/L.33 by a recorded vote of 97 to 21, with 19 abstentions
(see para. 25, draft resolution D). The voting was as follows:

: ,

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Micronesia, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian
Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Toga, Tunisia. Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria. Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/ ....

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 9

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Estonia, Finland,
Greece, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Slovenia, Sweden.

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.39

21. On 30 October, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia, Costa Rica,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico, Myanmar, the PhilippinesL
Sri Lanka, Sweden, Ukraine and Venezuela submitted a draft resolution entitled
"World Disarmament Campaign" (Ale .1/47IL. 39), which was later also sponsored
by Costa Rica. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Mexico at the 28th meeting, on 10 November.

22. At its 31st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.39 without a vote (see para. 25, draft resolution E).

G. Draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.41

23. On 30 October, Bolivia, India, Indonesia, Mexico and Myanmar submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Nuclear-arms freeze" (A/C.1/47/L.41), which was
later also sponsored by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 28th meeting,
on 10 November.

24. At its 33rd meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/47/L.41 by a recorded vote of 92 to 18, with 28 abstentions
(see para. 25, draft resolution F). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji,
Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab RepUblic, Thailand, Toga,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



10./47/692
English
Page 10

Against: Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, France, Germany,
Hungary, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, China,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation,
Samoa, Slovenia, Sweden, Zaire.

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

25. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly

A

Regional confidence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its
primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security
in accordance with its Charter,

Bearing in mind the guidelines for general and complete disarmament
adopted at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to
disarmament,

Recalling also its resolutions 43/78 Hand 43/85 of 7 December 1988,
44/21 of 15 November 1989, 45/58 M of 4 December 1990 and 46/37 B of
6 December 1991,

Considering the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building
measures taken at the initiative and with the participation of all States
concerned and taking into account the specific characteristics of each region,
in that they can contribute to regional disarmament and to international
security, in accordance with the principles of th~ Charter of the United
Nations,

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 11

Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional
disarmament, can be devoted to economic and social development and to the
protection of the environment for the benefit of all peoples, in particular
those of the developing countries,

Bearing in mind the establishment by the Secretary-General on 28 May 1992
of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa,
the purpose of which is to encourage arms limitation, disarmament,
non-proliferation and development in the subregion,

Bearing in mind also the appointment by the Secretary-General of a
Permanent Secretary of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions
in Central Africa,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on regional
confidence-building measures, if which deals chiefly with the organizational
meeting of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central
Africa, held at Yaounde from 27 to 31 July 1992 under the auspices of the
United Nations;

2. Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting
confidence-building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to
ease regional tensions and to further disarmament and non-proliferation
measures at regional and subregional levels in Central Africa;

3. Welcomes the programme of work including confidence-building
measures adopted by the States members of the Economic Community of Central
African States at the organizational meeting of the Standing Advisory
Committee, held at Yaounde from 27 to 31 July 1992 under the auspices of the
Uni ted Nations;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide assistance to
the Central African States in implementing the programme of work of the
Standing Advisory Committee;

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session a report on the implementation of the
present resolution;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session an item entitled "Regional confidence-building measures".

1/ A/47f511.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



i
, I

A/47/692
English
Page 12

B

United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and
advisory services programme

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the United
Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services programme, ~/

Recalling its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, Q/ the first special
session devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowships on
disarmament, as well as its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, 2/ the second
special session devoted to disarmament, in which it decided, inter alia, to
continue the programme,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme has already trained an
appreciable number of public officials selected from geographical regions
represented in the United Nations system, most of whom are now in positions of
responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs in their respective
countries or Governments,

Recalling also its resolutions 37/100 G of 13 December 1982, 38/73 C of
15 December 1983, 39/63 B of 12 December 1984, 40/151 H of 16 December 1985,
41/60 H of 3 December 1986, 42/39 I of 30 November 1987, 43/76 F of
7 December 1988, 44/117 E of 15 December 1989, 45/59 A of 4 December 1990 and
46/37 E of 6 December 1991,

Noting also with satisfaction that the programme, as designed, has
enabled an increased number of public officials, particularly from the
developing countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of disarmament,

Believing that the forms of assistance available to Member States,
particularly to developing countries, under the programme will enhance the
capabilities of their officials to follow ongoing deliberations and
negotiations on disarmament, both bilateral and multilateral,

1. Reaffirms its decisions contained in annex IV to the ConclUding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly 2/ and the

2/ A/47/568.

Q/ Resolution S-10/2.

2/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, ~welfth Special
Session, Annexes, agenda items 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
f

I

A/47/692
English
Page 13

report of the Secretary-General ~/ approved by resolution 33/71 E of
14 December 1978;

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Czechoslovakia,
Finland, Germany, Japan and Sweden for inviting the 1992 fellows to study
selected activities in the field of disarmament, thereby contributing to the
fulfilment of the overall objectives of the programme;

3. Notes with satisfaction that. within the framework of the programme,
the Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat organized regional
disarmament workshops for Africa, Asia and the Pacific, and Latin America and
the Car ibbean;

4. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Nigeria, Indonesia
and Mexico for their support of the regional disarmament workshops, and to the
Governments of New Zealand and Norway for making financial contributions;

5. Commends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the
programme has continued to be carried out;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue the implementation of the
Geneva-based programme within existing resources and to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.

c

Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-East Asia

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its
primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security
in accordance with its Charter,

Recalling also the Ten Principles adopted by the Asian-African
Conference, held at Bandung on 25 April 1955, the Declaration of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations, signed at Bangkok in August 1967,and
the Declaration adopted by the Association of South-East Asian Nations at its
fourth summit meeting, held at Singapore on 27 and 28 January 1992, 2/

Noting that the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-East Asia,
signed at Bali on 24 February 1976, which came into force on 15 July 1976 in
respect of the RepUblic of Indonesia, Malaysia. the Republic of the
Philippines, the Republic of Singapore and the Kingdom of Thailand, and on

.a/ A/33/305.

2/ A/47/80-S/23502, annex.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



: "

...., '

1../47/692
English
Page 14

7 January 1984 in respect of Brunei Darussalam. was registered with the United
Nations on 20 October 1976.

Noting also that Papua New Guinea acceded to the Treaty on 5 July 1989
and that the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam and the Lao People's Democratic
Republic acceded to the Treaty on 22 July 1992.

Noting further that the purpose of the Treaty is to promote perpetual
peace. everlasting amity and cooperation among the peoples of South-East Asia.
in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
including. inter alia. mutual respect for the independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity of all nations, non-interference in the internal affairs
of all nations. peaceful settlement of differences and disputes and
renunciation of the threat or use of force.

Aware that the Treaty includes provisions for the pacific settlement of
disputes which are in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

Recognizing that the Treaty provides a strong foundation for regional
confidence-building and for regional cooperation and that it is consistent
with the call by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in his report
entitled "An Agenda for Peace", 10/ for a closer relationship between the
United Nations and regional associations,

Endorses the purposes and principles of the Treaty of Amity and
Cooperation in South-East Asia and its provisions for the pacific settlement
of regional disputes and for regional cooperation in order to achieve peace,
amity and friendship among the peoples of South-East Asia, in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations, which are consistent with the current
climate of enhancing regional and international cooperation,

D

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly.

Convinced that the existence and use of nuclear weapons pose the greatest
threat to the survival of mankind,

Convinced also that nuclear disarmament is the only ultimate guarantee
against the use of nuclear weapons,

Convinced further that a multilateral agreement prohibiting the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons should strengthen international security and
contribute to the climate for negotiations leading to the ultimate elimination
of nuclear weapons,

10/ A/47/277-S/24111.

/ ...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
!
I

A/47/692
English
Page 15

Welcoming the agreement reached between the United States of America and
the Russian Federation in June 1992 to reduce their warhead stockpiles to a
maximum of 3,000 for the Russian Federation and 3,500 for the United States of
America by the year 2003,

Conscious that the recent steps taken by the United States of America and
the Russian Federation towards a reduction of their nuclear weapons and the
improvement in the international climate can contribute towards the goal of
complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, III it is stated that all States
should actively participate in efforts to bring about conditions in
international relations among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of
nations in international affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude
the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming that the use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared in its
resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 B of 14 December 1978,
34/83 G of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 I of
9 December 1981,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its
1992 session, was not able to undertake negotiations with a view to achieving
agreement on an international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use
of nuclear weapons under any circumstances, taking as a basis the text annexed
to General Assembly resolution 46/37 D of 6 December 1991,

1. Reiterates its request to the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiations, as a matter of priority, in order to reach agreement on an
international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons under any circumstances, taking as a basis the draft Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolution;

2. Also reguests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly on the results of those negotiations.

ANNEX

Draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of
Nuclear Weapons

The States Parties to this Convention.

Alarmed by the threat :0 the very survival of mankind posed by the
existence of nuclear weapons,

11/ Resolution S-10/2.

I . •.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 16

Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

Convinced that this Convention would be a step towards the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament
under strict and effective international control,

Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Have agreed as follows:

Article 1

The States Parties to this Convention solemnly undertake not to use or
threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

Article 2

This Convention shall be of unlimited duration.

Article 3

1. This Convention shall be open to all States for signature. Any
State that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any time.

2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory
States. Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.

3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deposit of instruments
of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the Governments of the
five nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article.

4. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of the Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

5. The depositary shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding
States of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument
of ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of this
Convention, as well as of the receipt of other notices.

6. This Convention shall be registered by the depositary in accordance
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

/ • ~ I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 17

Article 4

This Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian
and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send dUly certified copies
thereof to the Government of the signatory and acceding States.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned,
their respective Governments, have signed
signature at on the
nine hundred and __

E

being duly authorized thereto by
this Convention, opened for

day of one thousand

World Disarmament Campaign

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision taken in 1982 at its twelfth special session, the
second special session devoted to disarmament, by which the World Disarmament
Campaign was launched,

Recalling also its various resolutions on the subject, including
resolution 46/37 A of 6 December 1991,

Having examined the reports of the Secretary-General of 8 October 1992 on
the implementation of the World Disarmament Campaign, 12/ and of 31 July 1992
on the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters relating to the implementation of
the World Disarmament Campaign, 13/ as well as the Final Act of the Tenth
United Nations Pledging Conference for the Campaign, 14/ held on
30 October 1992,

Noting with appreciation the contributions that Member States have
already made to the Campaign,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General of 8 October 1992 on
the World Disarmament Campaign;

2. Commends the Secretary-General for his efforts to make effective use
of the resources available to him in disseminating as widely as possible
information on arms limitation and disarmament to elected officials, the
media, non-governmental organizations, educational communities and research
institutes, and in carrying out an active seminar and conference programme;

12/ A/47/469.

13/ A/47/354.

~/ A/CONF.161/1.

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/592
English
Page 18

3. Notes with appreciation the contributions to the efforts of the
Campaign by the United Nations information centres and the regional centres
for disarmament;

4. Decides that the World Disarmament Campaign shall be known hereafter
as the "United Nations Disarmament Information Programme" and the World
Disarmament Campaign Voluntary Trust Fund as the "Voluntary Trust Fund for the
united Nations Disarmament Information Programme";

5. Recommends that the Programme should further focus its efforts:

(g) To inform, to educate and to generate public understanding of the
importance of and support for multilateral action, including action by the
United Nations and the Conference on Disarmament, in the field of arms
limitation and disarmament, in a factual, balanced and objective manner;

(h) To facilitate unimpeded access to and an exchange of information on
ideas between the public sector and public interest groups and organizations,
and to provide an independent source of balanced and factual information that
takes into account a range of views to help further an informed debate on arms
limitation, disarmament and security;

(~) To organize meetings to facilitate exchanges of views and
information between governmental and non-governmental sectors and between
governmental and other experts in order to facilitate the search for common
ground;

5. Invites all Member States to contribute to the Voluntary Trust Fund
for the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;

7. Commends the Secretary-General for supporting the efforts of
universities, other academic institutions and non-governmental organizations
active in the educational field in widening the world-wide availability of
disarmament education, and invites him to continue to support and cooperate,
without cost to the regular budget of the United Nations, with educational
institutions and non-governmental organizations engaged in such efforts;

8. Decides that at its forty-eighth session there should be an eleventh
United Nations Pledging Conference for the United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme, and expresses the hope that on that occasion all those
Member States that have not yet announced any voluntary contributions will do
so, bearing in mind the objectives of the Third Disarmament Decade and the
need to ensure its success;

9. Reguests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session a report covering both the implementation of the
activities of the Programme by the United Nations system during 1993 and the
activities of the Programme contemplated by the system for 1994;

/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



I
l

A/47/692
English
Page 19

10. Also decides to include in the provisional agenda of its
forty-eighth session an item entitled "United Nations Disarmament Information
Programme" .

F

Nuclear-arms freeze

The General Assembly,

Recalling that, in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, 151 the first special session devoted to disarmament,
adopted in 1978 and unanimously and categorically reaffirmed in 1982 during
the twelfth special session of the General Assembly, ~I the second special
session devoted to disarmament, the Assembly expressed deep concern over the
threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the existence of nuclear
weapons,

Reaffirming the goal of general and complete disarmament under effective
international control,

Welcoming the new trends that have led to an improvement in the
international security environment,

Welcoming also the announcements of the significant measures, including
unilateral steps, taken by the Russian Federation and the United States of
America, which could signal the cessation and reversal of the nuclear-arms
race,

Welcoming further the Treaty between the United States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Reduction and Limitation of
Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on 31 July 1991, and the signing of a
protocol to this Treaty in which Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation,
Ukraine and the United States of America have undertaken to give effect to the
Treaty,

Welcoming the Joint Understanding of 17 June 1992 between the Russian
Federation and the United States of America on further reductions in their
strategic offensive arms, and expressing the hope that it will be followed by
an agreement at an early date in this regard,

Welcoming in addition the moratoria on nuclear-weapon tests currently
observed by France, the Russian Federation and the United States of America,

Resolution S-10/2.

lQI See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special
=S=8=s-",s.=i,-"o,-"n"-",--""A,..,nl=:n,-,e,-,x",e,,-s,,,-, agenda items 9 to 13, document A./S-12/32.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



, ,

A/47/692
English
Page 20

Convinced of the urgency of further negotiations for the substantial
reduction and qualitative limitation of existing nuclear arms,

Considering that a nuclear-arms freeze, while not an end in itself, would
constitute an effective step to prevent the qualitative improvement of
existing nuclear weaponry during the period when the negotiations take place,
and that it would at the same time reinforce the favourable environment for
the conduct of negotiations to reduce and eventually eliminate nuclear weapons,

Convinced also that the undertakings derived from the freeze can be
effectively verified,

Welcoming the unilateral steps taken by the nUClear-weapon States for the
cessation of the production of highly enriched uranium for nuclear weapons and
for the shutting down of reactors producing weapons-grade plutonium,

Noting with concern that all nuclear-weapon States have not so far taken
any collective action in response to the call made in the relevant resolutions
on the question of a nuclear-arms freeze,

Convinced further that the current international situation is most
conducive to nuclear disarmament,

l. ~ the Russian Federation and the United States ofkmerica, as
the two major nuclear-weapon States, to reach agreement on an immediate
nuclear-arms freeze, which would, inter alia, provide for a simultaneous total
stoppage of any production of nuclear weapons and a complete cut-off in the
production of fissionable material for weapons purposes;

2. Calls upon all nUClear-weapon States to agree, through a joint
declaration, to a comprehensive nuclear-arms freeze, whose structure and scope
would be the following:

(~) It would embrace:

(i) A comprehensive test ban on nuclear weapons and on their delivery
vehicles;

(ii) The complete cessation of the manufacture of nuclear weapons and of
their delivery vehicles;

(iii) A ban on all further deployment of nuclear weapons and of their
delivery vehicles:

(iv) The complete cessation of the production of fissionable material for
weapons purposes;

(Q) It would be subject to appropriate and effective measures and
procedures of verification:

1,1 t

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/692
English
Page 21

3. Requests once again the nuclear-weapon States to submit a joint
report, or separate reports, to the General Assembly, prior to the opening of
its forty-eighth session, on the implementation of the present resolution;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Nuclear-arms freeze" .

... *
26. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Di§armament in Asia and the Pacific and united Nations
Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in

Latin America and the Caribbean

The General Assembly, on the recommendation of the First Committee,
decides:

(a) To request the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its forty-eighth session on the activities of the regional centres;

(b) To include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth session the
item entitled "Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly: United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the
Caribbean" .

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




