








































UNITED'
NATIONS

General AssembIYi~",1

Gce

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 64

ISRAELI NUCLEAR ARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Jerzy ZALESKI (Poland)

1. INTRODUCTION

Distr.
GENERAl:.

Al411694
3 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

A

1. The item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament" was included in the
provisional agenda of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly in
accordance with its resolution 46/39 of 6 December 1991.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in
its agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting l on 8 October 1992 1 the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to itl namelYI items 49 to 65 1 68 and 142; and 67 and 69, The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and 21st meetings l
from 12 to 28 October (see A/C.1/47/PV.3-2l). Consideration of draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 22nd and 30th meetings l from
29 October to 11 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.22-30). Action on draft
resolutions on those items took place between the 31st and 40th meetings, from
12 to 25 November (see A/C.l/47/PV.31-40).

4. In connection with item 64, the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli nuclear armament
(A/47/538);

92-77217 0886P (E) 041292 071292 I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-
A./47/694
English
Page 2

Cb) Letter dated 6 February 1992 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Senegal to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the texts' of the documents adopted by the ,.
Sixth Islamic Summit Conference, held at Dakar from 9 to 11 December 1991 ,
(A/47/88-S/23563).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/47/L.9 and REV.l

5. On 28 October, Algeria, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Irag, Jordan, Kuwait,
the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United
Arab Emirates and Yemen submitted a draft resolution entitled "Israeli nuclear
armament" (A/C.l/47/L.9), which was introduced by the representative of Qatar
at the 26th meeting, on 5 November.

6. On 12 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/47/L.9/Rev.l), which contained the following changes:

(a) The fourth preambular paragraph, which had read:

"Noting with grave concern Israel's persistent refusal to
commit itself not to manufacture or acquire nuclear weapons, despite
repeated calls by the General Assembly, the Security Council and the
International Atomic Energy Agency",

was deleted;

(b) The seventh preambular paragraph, which had read:

"Deeply alarmed by the information with regard to the
continuing production, development and acquisition of nuclear
weapons by Israel and its testing of their delivery systems
threatening regional and international peace and security",

was revised to read:

"Deeply alarmed by the information with regard to the
continuing production, development and acquisition of nuclear
weapons by Israel";

(c) The eighth preambular paragraph, which had read:

"Aware of Israel's collaboration with South Africa in
developing their nuclear-weapons delivery systems",

was revised to read:

"Concerned at the cooperation between Israel and South Africa
in the military nuclear fields";

/ ... \
I

I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/694
English
Page 3

Cd) The ninth preambular paragraph. which had read:

"Deeply concerned that Israel has not committed itself to
refrain from attacking or threatening to attack safeguarded nuclear
facilities",

was deleted;

(e) Operative paragraphs 3 and 4, which had read:

"3. Expresses grave concern at the cooperation between Israel
and South Africa in the military nuclear fields;

"4. Expresses its deep concern regarding the information on
Israel's continuing production, development and acquisition of
nuclear weapons and testing of their delivery systems",

were deleted, and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly;

(f) The original operative paragraph 6, which had read:

"6. Calls upon all States and organizations that have not yet
done so not to cooperate with or give assistance to Israel that
could enhance its nuclear-weapons capability",

was revised to read:

"4. Calls upon all States and organizations not to cooperate
with or give assistance to Israel with the aim of enhancing its
nuclear-weapons capability".

7. At the 34th meeting, on 16 November, the Syrian Arab Republic withdrew
its sponsorship of draft resolution A/C.1/47/L.9/Rev.l (see A/C.l/47/PV.34).
SUbsequently, on 20 November, its delegation submitted a letter addressed to
the Chairman of the First Committee reinstating its sponsorship of the draft
resolution.

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/47/L.9/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 54 to 3, with 70 abstentions (see
para. 9). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, China, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt,
Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RepUblic of),
Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Namibia, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
RepUblic. Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/694
English
Page 4

Against: Israel, Romania, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahnmas, Belarus,
Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Kenya, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mopgolia, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa,
Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Togo, Ukraine, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay,
Venezuela.

Ill. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Israeli nuclear armament

The General Assemply,

Bearing in mind its previous resolutions on Israeli nuclear armament, the
latest of which is resolution 46/39 of 6 December 1991,

Recalling its resolution 44/108 of 15 December 1989, in which,
inter alia, it called for placing all nuclear facilities in the region under
International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, pending the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East,

Recalling also that the Security Council, in its resolution 487 (1981),
called upon Israel urgently to place all its nuclear facilities under Agency
safeguards,

Taking note of relevant resolutions adopted by the General Conference of
the International Atomic Energy Agency, the latest of which is resolution
GC(XXXVI)/RES/601 of 25 September 1992, 11

~/ See International Atomic Energy Agency, Resolutions and Other
Decisions of the General Conference. Thirty-sixth Regular Session,
21-25 September 1992.

I • .•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/594
English
Page 5

Taking into consideration the final document on international security
and disarmament adopted by the Tenth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to
6 September 1992, l/ and in particular its paragraph 52, which relates to
Israel's nuclear capabilities,

Deeply alarmed by the information with regard to the continuing
production, development and acquisition of nuclear weapons by Israel,

Concerned at the cooperation between Israel and South Africa in the
military nuclear fields,

1. Deplores Israel's refusal to renounce possession of nuclear weapons;

2. Urges Israel to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons; l/

3. Reaffirms that Israel should promptly apply Security Council
resolution 487 (1981), in which the Council, inter alia, requested it to place
all its nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards
and to refrain from attacking or threatening to attack nuclear facilities;

4. Calls upon all States and organizations not to cooperate with or
give assistance to Israel w.ith the aim of enhancing its nuclear-weapons
capability;

5. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to inform the
Secretary-General of any steps Israel may take to place its nuclear facilities
under Agency safeguards;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to follow closely Israeli nuclear
activities and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament".

1/ A/47/675-S/24816, annex.

~/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




