








































-..........-------.,.....,op"....---------------~

UNITED'
NATIONS

A

General Assembly

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 26

..- k, pp

Distr.
LIMITED

A/47/L.24/Rev.1
8 December 1992

ENGLISH

ZONE OF PEACE AND COOPERATION OF THE SOUTH ATLANTIC

Angola, Argentina, Benin, Brazil, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Namibia, Niqeria.
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo and

Uruguay: revised draft resolution

The General Assembly.

Recalling its resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986, in which it solemnly
declared the Atlantic Ocean, in the region situated between Africa and South
America. the "Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic",

Recalling also its SUbsequent resolutions on the matter, including
resolution 45/36 of 27 November 1990 and 46/19 of 25 November 19'91, in w~\.ich
it reaffirmed the determination of the States of the zone to enhance and
accelerate their cooperation in the political, economic, scientific,
technical, cultural an~ other spheres.

Reaffirming that the questions of peace and security and those of
development are interrelated and inseparable, and considering that cooperation
among all States. in particUlar those of the region, for peace and development
is essential to promote the objectives o~ the zone of peace and cooperation of
the South. Atlantic,

Awa;~~of the importance that the States of the zone attach to the
preservation of the region's environment and recognizing the threat that
pollution from any source poses to the marine and coastal environment. its
ecological balance and its resources,

Noting the concern expressed on the use of fishing methods and practices
that cause the over-exploitation of living marine resources, especially of
highly migratory and straddling fish stocks, and that it has an adverse impact

92-78190 4788Z (E) 081292 081292 I • .•

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.24/Rev.1
English
Page 2

on the conservation and management of living resources of the marine
environment, both within and beyond the exclusive economic zones,

1. Reaffirms the purpose and objective of the zone of peace and
cooperation of the South Atlantic;

2. Takes note of the report submitted by the Secretary-General, in
accordance with resolution 46/19; 1/

3. Welcomes the recent initiatives aimed at the full entry into force
of the Treaty for the Prohibition ef Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the
Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco) ~/ and stresses the relevance of such
initiatives for the advancement of the objectives and principles of the zone
of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic;

4. Affirms the importance of the South Atlantic to global maritime and
commercial transactions and its determination to preserve the region for all
activities protected by relevant international law, including the freedom of
navigation in the high seas;

5. Stresses also the importance for the zone of peace and cooperation
of the South Atlantic of the results of the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro from 3 to 14 June 1992,
particularly the principles of the Rio Declaration on Environment and
Development d/ and the programmes set forth in Agenda 21, ~/ as well as the
Framework Convention on Climate Change ~/ and the Convention on Biological
Diversity, in the conviction that their implementation will strengthen the
basis for cooperation within the zone and for the benefit of the international
community as a whole;

6. Notes with interest the hope exp~essed by the countries of the zone
to welcome in the near future a non-racial democratic South Africa into the
community of South Atlantic States and, in that connection, urges all parties
concerned in South Africa to cooperate with a view to ending the continuing
violence and thereby create an atmosphere conducive to negotiations ledding to
the establishment of a non-racial democratic and united South Africa;

1/ A/47/424.

~/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.

d/ See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26 (vol. I, sect. I».

i/ Ibid., (A/CONF.151/26 (vols. I-Ill».

~/ See A/AC.237/18 (Part II)/Add.1 and Corr.1.

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.24/Rev.1
Englis~

Page 3

7. Expresses its dppreciation to the inte~national community for its
support of the Economic Community of West African states Peace Plan for
Liberia, most recently through the adoption of Security Council resolution
788 (1992) of 19 November 1992, and hopes that the continuing subregional and
international efforts aimed at a peaceful resolution of the Liberian conflict
will, within the shortest possible time, lead to national reconciliation,
r.econstruction and development;

8. Calls upon the parties to the Peace Accords for Angola Q/ to respect
all the commitments undertaken in accordance with these accords, in particular
with regard to the confinement of their troops and weapons, demobilization,
and the formation of the unified national armed force, and to refrain from any
act that might heighten tension, impair the conduct of the electoral process
and threaten the territorial integrity of the country;

9. Also calls upon the international community to increase humanitarian
assistance to both Angola and Liberia;

10. Takes note with satisfaction of the initiative of the Government of
Namibia to host a meeting of the Ministers of Trade and Industry of the
countries of the zone at Windhoek in the first half of 1993;

11. Requests the relevant organizations, organs and bodies of the United
Nations system to render all appropriate assistance which States of the zone
may seek in their joint effor'ts to implement the declaration of the :/,;one of
peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the implementation of
resolution 41/11 and other subsequent resolutions on the matter under review
and to submit a report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session,
taking into account, inter alia, the views expressed by Member States;

13. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Zone of peace and cooperation of the South
Atlantic".

Q/ See S/22609, annex; see Official Records of the Security Council,
Forty-sixth Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1991, document S/22609 .

.....-------------,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




