








































-
UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly
Distr.
LIMITED

A/47 /L. 39*
9 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 30

.
, I

.'. r

QUESTION OF PALESTINE

Afghanistan, Algeria, Comoros, Cuba, Guinea, Indonesia,
Jordan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritania, Pakistan, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Viet Nam:

draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Aware of the uprising (intifadah) of the Palestinian people since
9 December 1987 against Israeli occupation, which has received significant
attention and sympathy from world public opinion,

Deeply concerned about the alarming situation in the Palestinian
territory occupied since 1967, as a result of the continued occupation by
Israel, the occupying Power, and of its persistent policies and practices
against the Palestinian people,

Reaffirming that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 1/ is applicable to the
Palestinian territory occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, and
to the other occupied Arab territories.

Expressing its profound shock at the continued measures by Israel, the
occupying Power, including the killing and wounding of Palestinian civilians,
and at the acts of violence committed by the Israeli security forces, which
took place on 8 October 1990 at the Haram al-Sharif in Jerusalem, resulting in
injuries and loss of human lives, and on 29 December 1990 at Rafah,

* Reissued for technical reasons.

1/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.

92-78489 4803Z (E) 091292

091292
/ ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.39
English
Page 2

Stressing the need to promote international protection to the Palestinian
civilians in the Palestinian territory,

Recognizing the need for increased support to, and aid fo~ and solidarity
with, the Palestinian people under Israeli ~ccupation,

Having considered the recommendations contained in the reports of the
~ecretary-Generalof 21 January 1988, ~I 31 October 1990 11 and
9 April 1991, ~I

Recalling its relevant resolutions as well as the relevant Security
Council r.esolutions, in particular Council resolution 681 (1990) of
20 December 1990, in paragraph 6 of which the Council requested "the
Secretary-General, in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red
Cross, to develop further the idea, expressed in his report, at convening a
meeting o~ the High Contracting Parties to the said Convention to discuss
possible measures that might be taken by them under the Convention and, for
this purpose, to invite the Parties tQ submit their views on how the idea
could contribute to the goals of the Convention, as well as on other relevant
matt:era, and to report thereon to the Council",

1. Condemns those policies and practices of Israel, the occupying
Power, which violate the human rights of the Palestinian people in the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and, in particular, such
acts as the opening of fire by 'the Israeli army and settlers that result in
the killing and wounding of defenceless Palestinian civilians, the beating and
breaking of bones, the deportation of Palestinian civilians, the imposition of
restrictive economic measures, the demolition of houses, the ransacking of
real or personal property belonging individually or collectively to private
persons, collective punishment and detentions, and so forth;

2. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, abide scrupulously by the
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of
Wa::, of 12 August 1949, and desist immediately from those policies and
practices which are in violation of the provisions of the Convention;

3. Calls upon all the High Contracting Parties to the Convention to
ensure respect by Israel, the occupying Power, for the Convention in all
circumstances, in conformity with their obligation under article 1 thereof;

~I S/19443; ~ee Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-third
Year, Supplement for January, February and March 1988, document S/19443.

11 S/219l9 and Corr.1; see Official Records of the Security Council,
KQ£~-fifth Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1990, document
S/~L919.

~I S/22472; see Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-sixth
Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1991, document S/22472.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



lian

:ity

~ed

mt

lch
1

and
I of

:he

:mt

A/47/L.39
English
Page 3

4. Strongly deplores the continuing disregard by Israel, the occupying
Power, of the relevant decisions of the Security Council;

5. Reaffirms that the occupation by Israel of the Palestinian territory
since 1967, including Jerusalem, and of the other Arab territories in no way
changes the legal status of those territories;

6. Reguests the Security Council to examine with urgency the situation
in the occupied Palestinian territory with a view to considering measures
needed to provide international protection to the Palestinian civilians in the
Palestinian territory occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem;

7. Invites Member States, the organizations of the United Nations
system, governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations,
and the mass communications media to continue and enhance their support for
the Palestinian people;

8. Reguests the Secretary-General to examine the present situation in
the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, by all
means available to him and to submit periodic reports thereon, the first such
report as soon as possible.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




