








































UNITED·
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

A

A/471718/Add.6
11 December 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 78 (e)

DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC COOPERATION: INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION TO MITIGATE THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONSEQUENCES ON KUWAIT
AND OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE REGION RESULTING FROM THE SITUATION

BETWEEN IRAQ AND KUWAIT

Report of the Second Committee (Part VII)*

Rapporteur: Mr. WaIter BALZAN (Malta)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on item 78 (see A/47/718,
para. 2). Action to be taken on sub-item (e) was considered at the 17th and
49th meetings, on 20 October and 9 December. An account of the Committee's
consideration of the SUb-item is contained in the relevant summary records
(A/C.2/46/SR.17 and 49).

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.2/47/L.7 AND REV.1

2. At the 17th meeting, on 20 October, the representative of Kuwait
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.7) entitled "International
cooperation to mitigate the environmental consequences on Kuwait and other
countries in the region resulting from the situation between Iraq and Kuwait",
which read as follows:

* The report of the Committee on item 78 will be issued in seven parts
(see also A/47/718 and Add.1-5).

92-79156 0915P (E) 151292 161292 / ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/718/Add. 6
English
Page 2

"The General Assembly,

"Aware of the disastrous situat'ion caused in Kuwait and neighbouring
areas by the torching and destruction of hundreds of its oil wells and of
the other environmental consequences on the atmosphere, land and marine
life,

"Bearing in mind all relevant Security Council resolutions, in
particular section E of resolution 687 (1991) of 3 April 1991,

"Having taken note of the report submitted by the Secretary-General
to the Security Council describing the nature and extent of the
environmental damage suffered by Kuwait, ~/

"Having also taken note of decision 16/11 A adopted by the Governing
Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on 31 May 1991, I/

"Having also taken note of the report of the Secretary-General
entitled 'International cooperation to mitigate the environmental
consequences on Kuwait and other countries in the region resulting from
the situation between Iraq and Kuwait', ~/

"Profoundly concerned at the deterioration in the environment as a
consequence of the damage, especially the threat posed to the health and
well-being of the people of Kuwait and the people of the region, and the
adverse impact on the economic activities of Kuwait and other countries
of the region, including the effects on livestock, agriculture and
fishing, as well as on wildlife,

"Acknowledging the fact that dealing with this catastrophe goes
beyond the capabilities of the countries of the region and, in that
regard, recognizing the need for strengthened international cooperation
to deal with the issue,

"Noting with appreciation the appointment by the Secretary-General
of an Under-Secretary-General as his Personal Representative to
coordinate United Nations efforts in this field,

~/ See S/22535 and Corr.1 and 2, annex; see Official Records of the
Security Council, Forty-sixth Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1991,
document S/22535.

£/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-sixth Session,
Supplement No. 25 (A/46/25), annex.

~/ A/47/265-E/1992/81.

! ...

r
r
r

I

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/4 71718/Add. 6
English
Page 3

"Also noting with appreciation the efforts already undertaken by the
Member States of the region, other States, the organizations of the
United Nations system, and governmental and non-governmental
organizations to study, mitigate and minimize the consequences of this
environmental catastrophe,

"Bearing in mind the effective work of the Regional Organization for
the Protection of the Marine Environment and the inter-agency task force
established under the leadership of the United Nations Environment
Programme especially for the environmental situation in the region, and
the plan of action,

"Expressing its special appreciation to the Governments which have
extended financial support to the two trust funds established for the
purpose by the Secretary-General of the International Maritime
Organization and the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment
Programme,

"Emphasizing the need to continue to take comprehensive measures to
study and mitigate these environmental consequences within a framework of
sustained and coordinated international cooperation,

"1. Urgently appeals to all States Members of the United Nations,
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, scientific bodies
and individuals to provide assistance for programmes aimed at the study
and mitigation of the environmental deterioration of the region and for
strengthening the Regional Organization for the Protection of the Marine
Environment and its role in coordinating the implementation of these
programmes;

"2. Calls upol1 the organizations and programmes of the United
Nations system, in particular the International Maritime Organization and
the United Nations Environment Programme, to pursue their efforts to
assess and counteract the short-term as well as long-term impact of the
environmental deterioration of the region;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General, through his Personal
Representative, to render assistance to the members of the Regional
Organization for the Protection of the Marine Environment in the
formulation and implementation of a coordinated and consolidated
programme of action comprising costed project profiles, to help identify
all possible resources for the programme of action and, inter alia, for
strengthening the environmental capacities of the members of the Regional
Organization for the Protection of the Marine Environment to surmount the
problem, and to allocate, within existing resources, the minimum
resources required to enable his Personal Representative to continue to
help coordinate the activities of the United Nations system to that end;

"4. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session, through the Economic and Social
Council, a report on the implementation of the present resolution;

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



¥.

!i

~ I .

A/4 71718/A.dd. 6
English
Page 4

"5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its
forty-eighth session a sub-item entitled 'International cooperation to
mitigate the environmental consequences on Kuwait and other countries in
the region resulting from the situation between Iraq and Kuwait' under
the item entitled 'Development and international economic cooperation'."

3. At the 49th meeting, on 9 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Jose Lino Guerrero (Philippines), informed the Committee of the results of
the informal consultations held on the draft resolution and drew the
Committee's attention to a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/47/L.7/Rev.l)
submitted by the sponsor of draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.7, as well as
A.fghanistan, Algeria, A.rgentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bosnia and
Herzegoyi.na, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde.
Chile, China, the Comoros, the Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Djibouti, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Gambia,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, India, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, the Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela and Zaire. Subsequently, Azerbaijan,
the Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bhutan, Cote d'Ivoire, the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Hungary, Jamaica, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Republic of Korea, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and
principe, Sierra Leone, Suriname, Tajikistan, the United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu and Zimbabwe joined in sponsoring the revised draft
resolution. The Vice-Chairman also made the following oral amendment: in the
eighth preambular paragraph, the words "of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization" should be inserted after the words
"International Oceanographic Commission".

4. At the same meeting, the Committee took a separate vote on a motion to
retain the second preambular paragraph of draft resolution
A/C.2/47/L.7/Rev.l. The motion passed by a recorded vote of 115 to 1, with
5 abstentions. 11 The voting was as follows:

11 The representatives of New Zealand and Portugal indicated that, had
they been present at the time of the voting, they would have voted in favour.

I ..•

l
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/718/Add.6
English
Page 5

In favour: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Be1arus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marsha11 Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Iraq.

Abstaining: Cuba, Gabon, Haiti, Jordan, Malaysia.

5. Before the vote on the second preambu1ar paragraph, stateroents were made
by the representatives of Iraq and Kuwait (see A/C.2/47/SR.49).

6. At its 49th meeting, the Committee voted on the text as a whole and
adopted draft resolution A/C.2/47/L.7/Rev.l, as orally amended, by a recorded
vote of 133 to none, vith 1 abstention (see para. 8). ~I The voting was as
follovs:

~/ The representatives of Luxembourg and Nigeria indicated that, had
they been present at the time of the voting, they would have voted in favour.

/ ...

, I,

:,•. 'i:'l>li !

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



Ai4 7 / 718 I Add. 6
English
Page 6

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, Uni.ted Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of
America, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

None.

,
"

Abstaining: Iraq. t

7. Before the adoption of the revised draft resolution as a whole, /'
statements were made by the representatives of Benin, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia .
and Peru (see AiC.2147/SR.49). r

Ill. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

8. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/71B/Add.6
English
Page 7

International cooperation to mitigate the §nvironmental
consequences on Kuwait and other countries in the region
resulting from the situation bewteen Iraq and Kuwait

The General Assembly,

Aware of the disastrous situation caused in Kuwait and neighbouring areas
by the torching and destruction of hundreds of its oil wells and by the other
environmental consequences on the atmosphere, land and marine life,

Bearing in mind all relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular
section E of resolution 687 (1991) of 3 April 1991,

Having taken note of the report submitted by the Secretary-General to the
Security Council describing the nature and extent of the environmental damage
suffered by Kuwait, QI

Having also taken note of decision 16/11 A adopted by the Governing
Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on 31 May 1991, 1/

Having further taken note of its resolution 46/216 of 20 December 1991,

Having taken note of the report of the Secretary-General on international
cooperation to mitigate the environmental consequences on Kuwait and other
countries in the region resulting from the situation between Iraq and
Kuwait, ~I

Profoundly concerned at the degradation of the environment as a
consequence of the damage, especially the threat posed to the health and
well-being of the people of Kuwait and the people of the region, and the
adverse impact on the economic activities of Kuwait and other countries of the
region, including the effects on livestock, agricUlture and fishing, as well
as on wildlife,

Welcoming the recent Mount Mitchell Research Cruise, which took place
under the sponsorship of the International Oceanographic Commission of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Regional
Organization for the Protection of the Marine Environment and the United
Nations Environment Programme in order to make a scientific assessment of
environmental conditions in the region,

Q/ See 5/22535 and Corr.l and 2, annex; see Official Records of the
Security Council, Forty-sixth Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1991,
document 8/22535.

1/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-sixth Session,
Supplement No, 25 (A/46/25), annex.

~/ A/47/265-E/1992/81.

1 •••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI 4 71718/Add. 6
English
Page 8

Awaiting the meetings due to be held in 1993, at which the results of the
Mount Mitchell Research Cruise will be discussed and evaluated,

Acknowledging the fact that dealing with this catastrophe goes beyond the
capabilities of the countries of the region and, in that regard, recognizing
the need for strengthened international cooperation to deal with the issue,

Noting with appreciation the appointment by the Secretary-General of an
Under-Secretary-General as his Personal Representative to coordinate United
Nations efforts in this field,

Also noting with appreciation the efforts already undertaken by the
Member States of the region, other States, the organizations of the United
Nations system, and governmental and non-governmental organizations to study,
mitigate and minimize the consequences of this environmental catastrophe,

Bearing in mind the effective work of the Regional Organization for the
Protection of the Marine Environment and the inter-agency task force
established under the leadership of the United Nations Environment Programme
especially for the environmental situation in the region, and the plan of
action,

Expressing its special appreciation to the Governments that have extended
financial support to the two trust funds established for the purpose by the
Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organization and the Executive
Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, and to the Governments
and organizations that supported the recent international research cruise
conducted under the auspices of the International Oceanographic Commission,
the Regional Organization for the Protection of the Marine Environment and the
United Nations Environment Programme,

1. Appeals to all States Members of the United Nations,
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, scientific bodies and
individuals to provide assistance for programmes aimed at the study and
mitigation of the environmental degradation of the region and for
strengthening the Regional Organization for the Protection of the Marine
Environment and its role in coordinating the implementation of these
programmes;

2. Calls upon the organizations and programmes of the United Nations
system, in particular the International Maritime Organization and the United
Nations Environment Programme, to pursue their efforts to assess the
short-term as well as the long-term impact of the environmental degradation of
the region and to consider measures that may be needed to counteract these
effects;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, through his Personal Representative,
to render assistance to the members of the Regional Organization for the
Protection of the Marine Environment in the formulation and implementation of
a coordinated and consolidated programme of action comprising costed project

j • • t

.'

!
!

I

l

I
r

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/718/Add.6
English
Page 9

profiles, to help identify all possible resources for the programme of action
and, inter alia, for strengthening the environmental capacities of the members
of the Regional Organization for the Protection of the Marine Environment to
deal with this problem, and to allocate, within existing resources, the
minimum resources required to enable his Personal Representative to continue
to help coordinate the activities of the United Nations system to that end;

4.
Assembly
a report

Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General
at its forty-ninth session, through the Economic and Social Council,
on the implementation of the present resolution;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session a sUb-item entitled "International cooperation to mitigate the
environmental consequences on Kuwait and other countries in the region
resulting from the situation between Iraq and Kuwait" under the item entitled
"Development and international economic cooperation".

:
i
I'

!,:l"ir,j"%,,,,··&,-.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




