








































UNITED'
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
LIMITED

A/471L.28
25 November 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 32

'LAW OF THE SEA

Australia, Barbados, Brazil, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Comoros, Denmark, Fiji, Grenada, Guyana, Indonesia, Lesotho,
Madagascar, Malta, Mauritania, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Myanmar, Namibia, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Portugal,
Saint Lucia, Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Trinidad and

'Tobago, Ukraine and Uruguay: draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions, including re~olution 46/78 of
12 December 1991, on the law of the sea,

Recognizing that, as stated in the third preambular paragraph of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, ~/ the prob1emr. of ocean
space are closely interrelated and need to be considered as a whole,

Convinced that it is important to safeguard the unified character of the
Convention and related reSOlutions adopted therewith and to apply them in a
manner consistent with that character and with their object and purpose,

Emphasizing the need for States to ensure consistent application of the
Convention, as well as the need for harmonization of national legislation with
the provisions of the Convention,

Considering that, in its resolution 2749 (XXV) of 17 December 1970, it
proclaimed that the seabed and ocean floor, and the subsoil thereof, beyond

1/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law
of the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3),
document A/CONF.62/122.

92-75120 4702Z (E) 251192 / ...

.~_I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/471L.28
English
Page 2

the limits of national jurisdiction (hereinafter re'ferred to as lithe Area"),
as well as the resources of the Area, are the common heritage of mankind,

Recalling that the Convention provides the regime to be applied to the
Area and its resources, .-

Recalling with satisfaction the expressions of willingness to explore all
possibilities of addressing issues of concern to some States in order to
secure universal participation in the Convention, 1/

Recognizing the need for cooperation in the early and effective
implementation by the Preparatory Commission of resolution 11 of the Third
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, 1/

Noting with satisfaction the progress made in the Preparatory Commission
since its inception, including the registration of six pioneer investors i/
and the designation by the p~eparatory Commission of reserved areas for the
International Seabed Authority from the ~pplication areas submitted by the
pioneer investors pursuant to resolution 11, bearing in mind that such
registration entails both rights and obligations for pioneer investors,

Noting the increasing needs of countries, especially developing
countries, for information, advice and assistance in the implementation of the
Convention and in their developmental process for the full realization of the
benefits of the comp~ehensivelegal regime established by the Convention,

Concerned that the developing countries are as yet unable to take
effective measures for the full realization of these benefits owing to the
lack of resources and of the necessary scientific and technological
capabilities,

Recognizing the need to enhance and supplement the efforts of States and
competent international organizations aimed at enabling developing countries
to acquire such capabilities,

Recognizing also that the Convention encompasses all uses and resources
of the Bea and that all related activities within the United Nations system
need to be implemented in a manner consistent with it,

Deeply concerned at the current state of the marine environment,

~/ A/44/650 and Corr.l, paras. 156 and 158.

1/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law
of the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3),
document A/CONF.62/121, annex I.

i/ See A/46/724, paras. 146-151.

I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.28
English
Page 3

Mindful of the import~nce of the Convention for the protection of the
marine environment,

Noting with concern ~he use of fishing methods and practices, including
those aimed at evading regulations and controls, which can have an adverse
impact on the conservation and management of marine living resources,

Considering the need~or effective and balanced conservation and
management of living marin~ resources, giving full effect to the relevant
provisions in the Convention,

Taking note of activities carried out in 1992 under programme 10 (Law of
the sea and ocean affairs) in the medium-term plan for the period
1992-1997, al taking into account the restructuring of the Secretariat of the
Organization, QI and of the report of the Secretary-General, prepared pursuant
to paragraph 23 of General Assembly resolution 46/78, 21

Noting with satisfaction the special report of the Secretary-General
prepared pursuant to paragraph 22 of General Assembly resolution. 46/78, on the
progress made in the implementation of the comprehensive legal regime embodied
in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, in the light of the
tenth anniversary in 1992 o! its adoption, ~I

. "
1. Recalls the historic significance of the United Nations Convention

on the Law of the Sea, especially on the occasion of the tenth anniversary in
1992 of its adoption, as an important contribution to the maintenance of
peace, justice and progress for all peoples of the world;

2. Expresses its satisfaction at the increasing and overwhelming
support for the Convention, as evidenced, inter alia, by the one hundred and
fifty-nine signatures and fifty-two of the sixty ratificationa or accessions
required for entry into force of the Convention;

3. Invites all States to make renewed efforts to "facilitate universal
participation in the Convention;

4. Notes with appreciation the initiative of the Secretary-General to
promote dialogue aimed at addressing issues of concern to some States in order
to achieve universal participation in the Convention; ~I

51 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fifth Session,
Supplement No. 6 (A/45/6/Rev.l), vol. I.

§.I A/46/882.

21 A/471623.

~I A/47/5l2.

~I See A/47/623, paras~ 20-23.

,I . ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



-~----~---------

A/471L.28
English
Page 4

5. Recognizes that political and economic changes, including
particularly a growing reliance on market principles, -underscore the need to
re-evaluate, in the light of the issues of concern to 'some States, 101 matters
in the regime to be applied to the Area and its resources, and that a
productive dialogue on sucn issues involving all interested parties would
facilitate the prospect of universal participation in-the Convention, for the
benefit of mankind as a whole;

6. Calls upon all States that have not don~ so 'to consider ratifying or
acceding to the Convention at the earliest possible date to allow the
effective entry into force of the new legal regime for the uses of the sea and
its resources and calls upon all States to take appropriate steps to promote
universal participation in the Convention, including through dialogue aimed at
addressing the issues of concern to some States;

7. Calls upon all States to safeguard the unified character of the
Convention and related resolutions adopted therewith and to apply them in a
manner consistent with that character and with their object and purpose;

8. Also calls upon States to observe the provisions of the Convention
when enacting their nationa~ legislation;

9. Notes the progress being made by the Preparatory Commission for the
International Seabed Authority and for the International Tribunal for the Law
of the Sea in all areas of its work;

10. Recalls the Understanding on the Fulfilment of Obligations by the
Registered Pioneer Investors and their Certifying States adopted by the
Preparatory Commission on 30 August 1990, as well as the understandinqs
adopted on 12 March 1992, and 18 August 1992, respectively; 111

11. Expresses its appreci~tion to the Secretary-General for his efforts
in support of the Convention and for the effective execution of programme 10
(Law of the sea and ocean affairs) in the medium-term plan for the period
1992-1997, and requests him, in the execution of programme 10, to continue to
provide an effective response to the increased needs of States for assistance
in the implementation of the Convention;

12. Also expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the
report prepared pursuant to paragraph 23 of General Assembly
resolution 46/78 11 and requests him to carry out the activities outlined
therein, as well as those aimed at the strengthening of the legal regime of
the sea, special emphasis being placed on the work of the Preparatory
Commission, including the implementation of resolution 11 of the Third United
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea;

101 Ibid., para. 21.

111 LOS/PCN/L.87, annex; LOS/PCN/L.102, annex; and LOS/PCN/L.108, annex.

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.28
English
Page 5

13. Welcomes regiona~~fforts' being undertaken by developing countries
to integrate the ocean sector in national development plans and programmes
through the process of international cooperation and assistance, in particular
the initiatives mentioned~n the report of the Secretary-General; 121

14. Calls upon the Secretary-General to continue to assist States in the
implementation of the Convention and in the development of a consistent and
uniform approach to the legal regime thereunder, as well as in their national,
subregional and regional efforts towards the full realization of the benefits
therefrom, and invites the organs and organizations of the United Nations
system to cooperate and lend assistance in these endeavours;

15. ~ interested Member States, in particular States with advanced
marine capabilities, to review relevant policies and programmes in the context
of the integration of the marine sector in national development strategies,
and to explore prospects for intensifying cooperation with developing States,
including States of regions active in this field;

16. Requests the competent international organizations, the United
Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and other multilateral funding
agencies, in accordance with their respective policies, to intensify
financial, technological, organizational and managerial assistance to the
developing countries in their efforts to realize the benefits of the
comprehensive legal regime established by the Convention and to strengthen
cooperation among themselves and with donor States in the provision of such
assistance;

17. Also request§ the Secretary-General to keep under review, in
cooperation with States and the competent international organizations, the
measures being undertaken and any necessary follow-up action, in order to
facilitate the realization by States of the benefits of the comprehensive
legal regime established by the Convention and to report thereon periodically
to the General Assembly;

18. ApproveS the decision of the Preparatory Commission to hold its
eleventh r~gular session at Kingston from 22 March to 2 April 1993 and to
hold, as appropriate, a summer meeting in New York in 1993;

19. Recognizes that the protection of the marine environment will be
significantly enhanced by the implementation of applicable provisions of the
Convention;

20. Reiterates its call to States and other members of the international
community to strengthen their cooperation and to take measures with a view to
giving full effect to the provisions in the Convention on the conservation and
management of marine living resources, including the prevention of fishing

121 See A/47/623, paras. 173-177.

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/L.28
English
Page 6

methods a~d practices which can have an adverse impact on the conservation and
mana9pment of marine living resources and, in particular, to comply with
biLateral and regional measures applicable to them aimed at effective
monitoring and enforcement;

21. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session on developments pertaining to the Convention and all
related activities and on the implementation of the present resolution;

22. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eighth
session the item entitled "Law of the Sea".

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




