








































UNITED A
NATIONS

General Assembly

Forty-seventh session
Agenda item 99

Nu V1 \.1 1992Distr .
•",', 'I'" ~~NERAL
i! 1, .. )1 i »,.,. J • j '. "", '
"""", \'\'<:y ......\;1 ~"". ~ ~ i ':.'. '

~ Ai47/645
11 November 1992

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

ACTIVITIES OF THOSE FOREIGN ECONOMIC AND OTHER INTERESTS WHICH
IMPEDE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF
INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES IN TERRITORIES
UNDER COLONIAL DOMINATION AND EFFORTS TO ELIMINATE COLONIALISM,

APARTHEID AND RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN SOUTHERN AFRICA

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Khalid Mohammad AL-BAKER (Qatar)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1992, the General Assembly,
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the
agenda of its forty-seventh session the item entitled:

"Activities of those foreign economic and other interests which impede
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories under colonial domination
and efforts to eliminate colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination
in southern Africa".

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Committee.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 98, 99, 100 and 12, 104 and 105, on
the understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

3. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee decided, without objection and
in accordance with established practice, to consider, in conjunction with
agenda item 99, chapter VI, of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to military

92-69331 0836P (E) 131192 151192 I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



(
A/47/645
English
Page 2

activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their
administration which might be impeding the implementation of the
Declaration. 1/

4. The Fourth Committee considered item 99 at its 2nd to 8th meetings,
between 6 October and 3 November (see A/C.4/47/SR.2-8). The general debate on
the items referred to above, including the present item, took place at the 3rd
to 7th meetings, between 13 and 22 October.

5. Also at the 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Rapporteur of the Special
Committee made a statement in which he gave an account of the relevant
activities of the Special Committee during 1992 and drew attention to
chapter V of the report of the Committee relating to item 99, ~/ as well as
the relevant documentation (A/AC.109/1l04/1l17-ll19, 1123 and 1124). The
Rapporteur also gave an account of the Committee's consideration, in pursuance
of paragraph 14 of General Assembly decision 46/419 of 11 December 1991, of
the question of military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in
Territories under their administration which might be impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and drew attention to chapter VI of the report of the
Committee, ~/ as well as the relevant documentation (A/AC.l09/1l03, 1110
and 1113).

6. At its 3rd meeting, on 13 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request
for hearing to Mr. J. A. Gonzalez-Gonzalez (A/C.4/47/5). At the same meeting,
Mr. Gonzalez-Gonzalez made a statement (A/C.4/47/SR.3).

7. At its 8th meeting, on 3 November, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 15 of chapter V of the report of the Special
Committee (A/47/23 (Part Ill» by a recorded vote of 89 to 32, with
8 abstentions (see para. g). 11 The voting was as follows:

I
l

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Badgiadesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica,

!I See A/47/23 (Part Ill). To be incorporated in Official Records of
the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/47/23).

1/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives
of Argentina, Austria, Denmark (on behalf also of Finland, Iceland, Norway and
Sweden), the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland (on behalf also of the European Community) and the United
States of America.

/ •• t

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



1../47/645
English
Page 3

Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, BUlgaria, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Panama, Paraguay, Republic
of Korea, Ukraine, Uruguay.

8. At its 8th meeting, on 3 November, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
decision contained in paragraph 12 of chapter VI of the report of the Special
Committee (A/47/23 (Part III» by a recorded vote of 90 to 33, with
7 abstentions (see para. 10). 1/ The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United hrab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

/ . ~ .

"

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/645
English
Page 4

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Eulgaria, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Panama, Paraguay, Republic
of Korea, Uruguay.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

9. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Activities of those foreign economic and other interests which
impede the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories
under colonial domination and efforts to eliminate colonialism,

apartheid and racial discrimination in southern Africa

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Activities of those foreign economic
and other interests which impede the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories
under colonial domination and efforts to eliminate colonialism, apartheid and
racial discrimination in southern Africa",

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regar to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, l/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
as well as all its other resolutions on this subject, inclUding, in
particular, resolution 46/181 of 19 December 1991, endorsing the Plan of
Action for the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, i/

Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their

l/ A/47/23 (Part III)" chap. V.

i/ See A/46/634/Rev.l of 13 December 1991.

I
~'

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/645
English
Page 5

administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those
Territories against abuses,

Reaffirming also that those economic and other activities which impede
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples and obstruct efforts aimed at the elimination
of colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination in South Africa and in
colonial Territories are in direct violation of the rights of the inhabitants
and of the principles of the Charter and all relevant resolutions of the
United Nations,

Seriously concerned about the activities of those foreign economic,
financial and other interests which continue to exploit the natural resources
that are the heritage of the indigenous populations of the colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories in the Caribbean, the Pacific and other
regions, as well as their human resources, to the detriment of their
interests, thus depriving them of their right to control the resources of
their Territories and impeding the realization by those peoples of their
legitimate aspirations for self-determination and independence,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity,

Gravely concerned that certain countries, transnational corporations and
international financial institutions have continued their economic relations
with South Africa,

Recognizing the crucial and decisive role that the imposition of
international sanctions has played in applying the necessary pressure on the
South African regime to undertake significant measures towards the eradication
of apartheid,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item; l/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination and independence and to
the enjoyment of the natural resources of their Territories, as well as their
right to dispose of those resources in their best interests;

3. Reiterates that any administering or occupying Power that deprives
the colonial peoples of the exercise of their legitimate rights over their
natural resources or subordinates the rights and interests of those peoples to
foreign economic and financial interests violates the solemn obligations it
has assumed under the Charter of the United Nations;

I • ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



. i

A/47/645
English
Page 6

4. Reaffirms its concern over the activities of those foreign economic,
financial and other interests which continue to exploit the natural resources
that are the heritage of the indigenous populations of the colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories in the Caribbean, the Pacific and other
regions, as well as their human resources, to the detriment of their
interests, thus depriving them of their right to control the resources of
their Territories and impeding the realization by those peoples of their
legitimate aspirations for self-determination and independence;

5. Condemn§ the activities of those foreign economic and other
interests in the colonial Territories which impede the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), and the efforts to
eliminate colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination;

6. Strongly condemns the collaboration with the South African regime by
certain countries as well as transnational corporations that continue to make
new investments in South Africa and supply the racist regime with armaments,
nuclear technology and all other materials that are likely to buttress it and
thus aggravate the threat to peace in the region;

7. Calls upon all States to maintain the existing measures against the
apartheid regime as specified in the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, annexed to General Assembly
resolution S-16/1 of 14 December 1989;

8. Calls once again upon all Governments that have not yet done so to
take, in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly
resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other
measures in respect of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their
jurisdiction that own and operate enterprises in colonial Territories that are
detrimental to the interests of the inhabitants of those Territories, in order
to put an end to such enterprises and to prevent new investments that run
counter to the interests of the inhabitants of those Territories;

9. Calls upon those oil-producing and oil-exporting countries that have
not yet done so to take effective measures against the oil companies concerned
so as to terminate the supply of crude oil and petroleum products to the
racist regime of South Africa;

10. Reiterates that the exploitation and plundering of the marine and
other natural resources of colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories by
foreign economic interests, in violation of the relevant resolutions of the
United Nations, are a grave threat to the integrity and prosperity of those
Territories;

11. Inyites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations
system to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty
of the peoples of colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories over their
natural resources is fully respected and safeguarded;

I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/'17/645
English
Page 7

12. ~ the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures
to safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the
colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories to their natural resources and to
establish and maintain control over the future development of those resources,
and requests the administering Powers to take all necessary steps to protect
the property rights of the peoples of those Territories;

13. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no
discriminatory and unjust wage systems or working conditions prevail in the
Territories under their administration and to apply in each Territory a
uniform system of wages to all the inhabitants without any discrimination;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to continue, through all means at his
disposal, to inform world public opinion of those activities of foreign
economic and other interests which impede the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

15. Appeals to mass media, trade unions and non-governmental
organizations, as well as individuals, to continue their efforts for the full
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and in the struggle against apartheid and the
mobilization of international public opinion against the policy pursued by the
South African apartheid regime and to oppose the relaxation of existing
measures against the regime, in order to accelerate the process of
constitutional change with the aim of establishing a united, democratic and
non-racial South Africa;

16. Decides to continue to monitor closely the situation in the colonial
and Non-Self-Governing Territories so as to ensure that all economic
activities in those Territories are aimed at strengthening and diversifying
their economies in the interest of the indigenous peoples and at promoting the
economic and financial viability of those Territories, in order to facilitate
and accelerate the exercise by the peoples of those Territories of their right
to self-determination and independence;

17. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report
thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.

* * *
10. The Fourth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

I • ••

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/645
English
Page 8

Military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in
Territories under their administration which might be
impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples

1. The General Assembly, having considered the chapter of the report of
the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples relating to an item on the agenda of the Special Committee entitled
"Military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under
their administration which might be impeding the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples" Q/ and recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and all
other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to military
activities in colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories, reaffirms its
strong conviction that military bases and installations in the Territories
concerned could constitute an obstacle to the exercise by the people of those
Territories of their right to self-determination and reiterates its strong
views that existing bases and installations, which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration, should be withdrawn and that no further
entrenchment should be condoned.

2. Aware of the presence of such bases and installations in some of
those Territories, the General Assembly urges the administering Powers
concerned to continue to take all necessary measures not to involve those
Territories in any offensive acts or interference against other States, and to
comply fully with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations.

3. The General Assembly reiterates its condemnation of all those
military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under
their administration that might run counter to the rights and interests of the
colonial peoples concerned, especially their right to self-determination and
independence. The Assembly once again calls upon the colonial Powers
concerned to terminate such activities and to eliminate such military bases in
compliance with the relevant resolutions of the Assembly.

4. The General Assembly reiterates that the colonial Territories and
areas adjacent thereto should not be used for nuclear testing, dumping of
nuclear wastes or deployment of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction.

5. The General Assembly welcomes the important changes taking place in
South Africa aimed at facilitating the commencement of substantive
constitutional negotiations. The Assembly notes that, these developments
notwithstanding, apartheid remains firmly entrenched and that as a result
there is a continuing threat to the peace and security of the region.

~/ A/47/23 (Part Ill), chap. VI.

/ ...

p

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/645
English
Page 9

6. The General Assembly notes with grave concern revelations of covert
funding and collusion by the South African regime with certain political
organizations and reports of the involvement of its security forces in
perpetrating acts of violence.

7. The General Assembly condemns the continued military, nuclear and
intelligence collaboration between South Africa and certain countries, which
constitutes a violation of the military embargo imposed against South Africa
by the Security Council in its resolution 418 (1977) of 4 November 1977, and
which poses a threat to international peace and security. The Assembly urges
the Council to consider, as a matter of urgency, the report of the Security
Council Committee established under its resolution 421 (1977) of
9 December 1977 QI and to adopt further measures to widen the scope of Council
resolution 418 (1977) in o=der to make it more effective and comprehensive.
The Assembly calls for an immediate end to all forms of such collaboration.
The Assembly further calls for the scrupulous observance of resolution
558 (1984) of 13 December 1984, in which the Council enjoined Member States to
refrain from importing armaments from South Africa.

8. The General Assembly considers that the acquisition of
nuclear-weapon capability by the South African regime, with its infamous
record of violence and aggression, constitutes a further effort on its part to
terrorize and intimidate independent States in the region into submission.
The Assembly condemns the continuing support to the South African regime in
the military and other fields. In this context, the Assembly expresses its
concern at the grave consequences for international peace and security of the
collaboration between the apartheid system in South Africa and certain Western
Powers and other countries in the military and nuclear fields. It calls upon
the States concerned to end all such collaboration and, in particular, to halt
the supply to the apartheid system of equipment, technology, materials and
training enabling the regime to increase its capability to manufacture nuclear
weapons.

9. The General Assembly strongly condemns the continuing collaboration
of certain countries with the racist regime in the military and nuclear fields
and expresses its conviction that such collaboration is in contravention of
the arms embargo imposed against South Africa under Security Council
resolution 418 (1977) and undermines international solidarity against the
apartheid regime. The Assembly thus calls for the termination forthwith of
all such cOllaboration.

10. The General Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard of the
Declaration on South Africa, adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity at its twenty-seventh ordinary

QI Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-fifth Year,
Supplement for July, August and September 1980, document S/14179.

I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/47/645
English
Page 10

session, held at Abuja, Nigeria, from 3 to 5 June 1991, 1/ the report of the
Tenth Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Accra from 2 to 7 September 1991, ~/ and the Communique, adopted by
the Heads of Government of the countries of the Commonwealth at their meeting
held at Harare from 16 to 22 October 1991. i/

11. The General Assembly urges all Governments, the specialized agencies
and other intergovernmental organizations to provide increased material
assistance to the thousands of refugees who have been forced by the oppressive
policies of the apartheid "regime in South Africa to flee into the neighbouring
States and for the purpose of resettlement of those who are returning.

12. The General Assembly deplores the continued alienation of land in
colonial Territories, particularly in the small island Territories of the
Pacific and Caribbean regions, for military installations. The large-scale
utilization of the local resources for this purpose could adversely affect the
economic development of the Territories concerned.

13. The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to continue,
through all means at his disposal, to inform world pUblic opinion of the facts
concerning the military activities and arrangements in colonial Territories
which are impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV).

14. The General Assembly requests the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this
question and to report thereon to the Assembly at its forty-eighth session.

1/ See A/46/390, annex II, declaration' AHG/Decl.4 (XXVII).

~/ A/46/726-S/23265, annex.

F

I: :

!, ,

i/ A/46/708, annex.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library




