





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/718
17 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 92

EXTERNAL DEBT CRISIS AND DEVELOPMENT

Report of the Second Committee

Rapporteur: Ms. Irene FREUDENSCHUSS-REICHL (Austria)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-eighth session the item entitled "External debt crisis and
development" and to allocate it to the Second Committee.

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 10th, 11th, 18th and 48th
meetings, on 14, 15, 26 October, and 13 December. An account of the Committee’s
discussion of the item is contained in the relevant summary records
(A/C.2/48/SR.10, 11, 18 and 48). Attention is also drawn to the general debate
held by the Committee at its 3rd to 8th meetings, on 8 and 11 to 13 October (see
A/C.2/48/SR.3-8).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the international debt strategy as
of mid-1993 (A/48/345);

(b) Letter dated 28 May 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the press communiqué issued by the Standing Ministerial Committee for Economic
Cooperation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries at its meeting held at
Bali, Indonesia, from 10 to 13 May 1993 (A/48/182);

93-71724 (E) 191293 /...



A/48/718
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 4 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Brazil
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the final
document of the third Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government
(A/48/291-S/26242).

4. At the 10th meeting, on 14 October 1993, the Director for Macroeconomic and
Social Policy Analysis of the Department for Economic and Social Information and
Policy Analysis made an introductory statement (see A/C.2/48/SR.10).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.2/48/L.5 AND REV.1

5. At the 18th meeting, on 26 October, the representative of Colombia, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are also members of the
Group of 77, and China, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Enhanced
international cooperation towards a durable solution to the external debt
problems of all developing countries" (A/C.2/48/L.5) and orally revised the text
as follows:

(a) A new paragraph 9 was added to read as follows:

"Stresses that concerted action to alleviate the debt burden of
developing countries by developed countries is critical to growth in the
developing world, which, in turn, is essential for the growth of the world
economy;"

and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

(b) In operative paragraph 14, after the words "developing countries" the
words ", taking into account the situation of middle-income countries and in
particular that of low-income countries" were inserted.

6. The draft resolution, as orally revised, read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming its resolutions 41/202 of 8 December 1986, 42/198 of
11 December 1987, 43/198 of 20 December 1988, 44/205 of 22 December 1989,
S-18/3 of 1 May 1990, 45/199 of 21 December 1990, 45/214 of
21 December 1991, 46/151 of 18 December 1991, and 47/198 of
22 December 1992,

"Noting the limited progress achieved so far in solving the debt
problem and stressing that further concrete measures are essential to solve
the external debt problem of a large number of developing countries,

"Noting also with concern the continuing debt and debt-service
problems of indebted developing countries (least developed, low-income,
lower middle-income and middle-income) which adversely affect their
development efforts and economic growth, and reiterating the need to
address and solve those problems through effective debt-relief measures,

/...



A/48/718
English
Page 3

bearing in mind, in this context, the special and critical situation of the
indebted developing countries of Africa,

"Stressing the importance of alleviating the onerous debt and
debt-service burdens connected with all types of debt, commercial and
public, multilateral and bilateral, of all developing countries,

"Stressing the necessity of a supportive international economic
environment - in particular stable exchange rates, low international
interest rates, an open international trading system and the amelioration
of the terms of trade of developing countries - and noting the inadequacy
of resources for the implementation of international consensus agreements
on development,

"Expressing its concern that, in many developing countries, the burden
of debt and debt service constitute one of the major obstacles to the
revitalization of growth and development, despite the often strenuous
economic reforms of those countries,

"Noting that those developing countries which have continued, at great
cost, to meet their international debt and debt-service obligations in a
timely fashion have done so despite severe external and domestic financial
constraints,

"1. Takes note of the Secretary-General’s report concerning the
external debt crisis and development; 1/

"2. Expresses its concern that only a few countries have been able to
conclude agreements on commercial bank debt-service reduction and calls for
the conclusion of similar agreements with all interested developing
countries;

"3. Also stresses the need for the implementation of additional
debt-relief measures, including further reduction and cancellation of debt
and debt service related to official debt, and for more urgent actions with
regard to, inter alia, the remaining commercial debt owed by the developing
countries;

"4. Also calls upon the international community, in particular the
developed creditor countries, to write-off the official bilateral debt owed
by the least developed countries;

"5. Calls for the rapid and effective implementation of the measures
taken to address the debt problem of certain middle-income African
countries and invites all creditors to take appropriate measures for all
middle-income debtor developing countries, taking into account the special
and critical situation of those in Africa;

1/ A/48/345.

/...



A/48/718
English
Page 4

"6. Calls on the donor countries and multilateral financial
institutions to consider taking innovative measures for substantial relief
of the debt of low-income countries;

"7. Stresses the need for the broadest and most expeditious
implementation of the recent initiatives and the need to continue to build
upon them, and calls on the developed countries to adopt and implement the
Trinidad and Tobago terms;

"8. Recognizes the urgent need to continue to provide a social safety
net to vulnerable groups most adversely affected by the implementation of
economic reform programmes in the debtor countries, in particular
low-income groups, in order to ensure social and political stability;

"9. Stresses that concerted action to alleviate the debt burden of
developing countries by developed countries is critical to growth in the
developing world, which, in turn, is essential for the growth of the world
economy;

"10. Also recognizes the need of debtor developing countries for a
supportive international economic environment as regards, inter alia, terms
of trade, commodity prices, improved market access and trade practices, and
stresses the urgent need for a balanced and successful outcome of the
Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, which would result in the
liberalization and expansion of world trade to the benefit of all
countries, in particular the developing countries;

"11. Stresses the need, in addition to debt relief measures that
include debt and debt-service reduction, for new financial flows to debtor
developing countries, and urges the creditor countries and the multilateral
financial institutions to continue to extend concessional financial
assistance, as appropriate, in order to support the implementation by the
developing countries of their economic reforms, stabilization and
structural adjustment programmes, so as to enable them to extricate
themselves from the debt overhang and to assist them in achieving economic
growth and development;

"12. Urges the international community to consider wider application
of innovative measures, such as debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-nature
swaps and debt-for-development swaps, without prejudice to more durable
solutions such as debt cancellation;

"13. Calls upon private creditors and commercial banks to renew and
expand initiatives and efforts to tackle the commercial debt problems of
the least developed countries, and of low- and middle-income developing
countries;

"14. Invites the multilateral financial institutions to consider
rescheduling and reducing the arrears owed by the least developed
countries, and low- and middle-income countries, taking into account the
special and critical situation of those in Africa, and decides that a study
should be undertaken to examine how the multilateral financial institutions

/...



A/48/718
English
Page 5

can best extend debt relief measures of the debt owed to them by developing
countries;

"15. Urges the international community to devise an innovative
strategy to deal with the debt problems of developing countries, taking
into account the situation of middle-income countries and in particular
that of low-income countries that have carried out economic reforms, met
their obligations and continued to service their debt at great social cost;

"16. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session on the implementation of the present
resolution."

7. At its 48th meeting, on 13 December 1993, the Committee had before it a
revised draft resolution submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution
A/C.2/48/L.5 (A/C.2/48/L.5/Rev.1).

8. The representative of Cameroon made oral revisions to the text as follows:

(a) In the title and in the second line of the sixth preambular paragraph,
the word "all" before the word "developing" was deleted;

(b) In the third line of the second preambular paragraph, the word
"problem" was replaced with the word "problems";

(c) In the third line of operative paragraph 5, the word "take" was
replaced with the words "consider taking", and the word "all" before the word
"middle-income" was deleted;

(d) At the end of operative paragraph 13, the words "reduction and/or"
were inserted after the word "debt".

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.2/48/L.5/Rev.1, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 152 to 1 (see
para. 11). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,

/...



A/48/718
English
Page 6

Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

10. After the draft resolution was adopted, a statement was made by the
representative of Colombia on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are also members of the Group of 77 (see A/C.2/48/SR.48).

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

11. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Enhanced international cooperation towards a durable solution
to the external debt problems of developing countries

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolutions 41/202 of 8 December 1986, 42/198 of
11 December 1987, 43/198 of 20 December 1988, 44/205 of 22 December 1989,
S-18/3 of 1 May 1990, 45/199 of 21 December 1990, 45/214 of 21 December 1991,
46/148 and 46/151 of 18 December 1991, and 47/198 of 22 December 1992,

Noting that, owing to uneven developments in the context of the evolving
international debt strategy, further progress and further concrete measures are
essential towards the solution of the external debt problems of a large number
of developing countries,

Welcoming the fact that some developing countries have made substantial
progress towards resolving their debt difficulties,

Noting with concern the continuing debt and debt-service problems of
indebted developing countries, which adversely affect their development efforts
and economic growth, and reiterating the need to address and solve those
problems through effective debt-relief measures, bearing in mind, in this
context, the special and critical situation of the most indebted developing
countries of Africa,

/...



A/48/718
English
Page 7

Noting that a number of countries with economies in transition are
experiencing debt-servicing difficulties, while recognizing that the Paris Club
has adopted a flexible and innovative approach to deal with these problems, and
calling upon private creditors to adopt similar measures,

Stressing the importance of alleviating the onerous debt and debt-service
burdens connected with all types of debt of developing countries, taking into
account the urgent need for an equitable and durable approach,

Emphasizing the importance for debtor developing countries of continuing to
pursue and intensify their efforts in their economic reform, stabilization and
structural adjustment programmes, in order to raise savings and investment,
reduce inflation and improve economic efficiency, taking into account their
individual characteristics and the vulnerability of the poorer strata of their
populations,

Stressing the necessity of a supportive international economic
environment as regards, inter alia, terms of trade, commodity prices, improved
market access, trade practices, exchange rates and international interest rates,
and noting the continued need for resources for the implementation of
international consensus agreements for the promotion of sustainable development,

Expressing its concern that, in many developing countries, the burden of
debt and debt service constitute one of the major obstacles to the
revitalization of growth and development, despite the often strenuous economic
reforms of those countries,

Noting that those developing countries which have continued, at great cost,
to meet their international debt and debt-service obligations in a timely
fashion have done so despite severe external and domestic financial constraints,

1. Takes note of the Secretary-General’s report concerning the external
debt crisis and development; 2/

2. Notes the fact that some debtor developing countries with commercial
external debt have been able to conclude agreements on commercial bank
debt-service reduction, and calls for the conclusion of similar agreements with
other interested developing countries;

3. Calls upon the international community to explore ways to implement
additional measures, including further cancellation or reduction of debt and
debt service related to official debt, and to take more urgent actions with
regard to, inter alia, the remaining commercial debt owed by the developing
countries;

4. Welcomes the write-off by certain donors of a significant part of the
bilateral official debt of the least developed countries, and urges those
countries which have not done so to cancel or provide equivalent relief for the
official development assistance debt of the least developed countries;

2/ A/48/345.

/...



A/48/718
English
Page 8

5. Calls for the rapid and effective implementation of the measures taken
to address the debt problem of certain middle-income African countries and
invites all creditors to consider taking appropriate measures for middle-income
debtor developing countries, taking into account the special and critical
situation of those in Africa;

6. Also calls upon the donor countries and multilateral financial
institutions, within their prerogatives, to consider appropriate new measures
for substantial relief of the debt of low-income countries;

7. Stresses the need for the broadest and most expeditious implementation
of the recent initiatives and the need to continue to build upon them, and calls
upon the developed countries to adopt and implement further debt-alleviating
terms, including consideration of the Trinidad and Tobago terms, as appropriate;

8. Recognizes the urgent need to continue to provide a social safety net
to vulnerable groups most adversely affected by the implementation of economic
reform programmes in the debtor countries, in particular low-income groups, in
order to ensure social and political stability;

9. Emphasizes the importance for developing countries to continue their
efforts to promote a favourable environment for attracting foreign investment,
thereby promoting growth and sustainable development;

10. Stresses that concerted action by the international community, in
particular by developed countries, to alleviate the debt burden of developing
countries is vital to growth in the developing countries, which, in turn, would
promote the growth of the world economy;

11. Recognizes the need of debtor developing countries for a supportive
international economic environment as regards, inter alia, terms of trade,
commodity prices, improved market access and trade practices, and stresses the
urgent need for a balanced and successful outcome of the Uruguay Round of
multilateral trade negotiations, which would result in the liberalization and
expansion of world trade to the benefit of all countries, in particular the
developing countries;

12. Stresses the need, in addition to debt-relief measures that include
debt and debt-service reduction, for new financial flows to debtor developing
countries, and urges the creditor countries and the multilateral financial
institutions to continue to extend concessional financial assistance, as
appropriate, in order to support the implementation by the developing countries
of their economic reforms, stabilization and structural adjustment programmes,
so as to enable them to extricate themselves from the debt overhang and to
assist them in achieving economic growth and development;

13. Urges the international community to consider wider application of
innovative measures, such as debt-for-equity, debt-for-nature and
debt-for-development swaps, without prejudice to more durable solutions such as
debt reduction and/or cancellation;

/...



A/48/718
English
Page 9

14. Calls upon private creditors and, in particular, commercial banks to
renew and expand initiatives and efforts to tackle the commercial debt problems
of the least developed countries and of low- and middle-income developing
countries;

15. Urges the multilateral financial institutions to continue to provide
support for debt and debt-service reduction packages with the necessary
flexibility under their established guidelines, and also urges that earnest
attention be given to continuing to work towards a growth-oriented solution to
the problems of developing countries that are having serious debt-servicing
difficulties, including those countries whose debt is mainly to official
creditors or to multilateral financial institutions;

16. Urges creditor countries, private banks and, within their prerogative,
multilateral financial institutions to consider the extension of appropriate new
financial support to developing countries, in particular the low-income
countries with substantial debt burdens that continue, at great cost, to service
the debt and meet their international obligations;

17. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

-----


