





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/677
13 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 72

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDING DOCUMENT OF
THE TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly:

"(a) United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services
programme;

"(b) Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons;

"(c) United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;

"(d) Nuclear-arms freeze;

"(e) Regional confidence-building measures;

"(f) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa,
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and
the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament
and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean"

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-eighth session of the
General Assembly in accordance with its resolutions 47/53 A, C, D and E of
9 December 1992 and 47/53 F of 15 December 1992, and decision 47/421 of
9 December 1992.

93-69046 (E) 151293 /...



A/48/677
English
Page 2

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to
it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and 28 October (see
A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place
at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.18-23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place at
the 24th to 30th meetings, on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 72, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on review and implementation of the
Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly -
United Nations Disarmament Information Programme (A/48/326);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and the United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean
(A/48/346);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on review and implementation of the
Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly -
Regional confidence-building measures (A/48/412);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on review and implementation of the
Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly -
United Nations Disarmament Fellowship, Training and Advisory Services Programme
(A/48/469);

(e) Letter dated 13 April 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Turkey to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/48/137-S/25593);

(f) Letter dated 27 July 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Thailand to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/294-
S/26247);

(g) Letter dated 30 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Marshall Islands to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the communiqué of the Twenty-fourth South Pacific Forum (A/48/359);

(h) Letter dated 5 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of China
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/477);

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 3

(i) Letter dated 6 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the communiqué of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the Movement of the Non-Aligned Countries, held in New York on
4 October 1993 (A/48/484-S/26552);

(j) Letter dated 11 November 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/48/594-S/26733 and Corr.1).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.6

5. At the 20th meeting, on 5 November, the representative of Gabon, on behalf
of Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo,
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe and Zaire, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Regional confidence-building measures"
(A/C.1/48/L.6), which was later also sponsored by the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea.

6. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted on
17 November a statement on the programme budget implications of draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.6 (A/C.1/48/L.52).

7. At its 30th meeting, on 19 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.6 by a recorded vote of 141 to 1, with 1 abstention (see para. 20,
draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 4

Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.13 and Rev.1 and 2

8. On 1 November 1993, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa
Rica, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
India, Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mexico and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution entitled "Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons" (A/C.1/48/L.13). The draft
resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Convinced that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious
threat to the survival of mankind,

"Convinced also that a multilateral agreement prohibiting the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons should strengthen international security
and contribute to the climate for negotiations leading to the ultimate
elimination of nuclear weapons,

"Welcoming the START II agreement between the Russian Federation and
the United States of America aimed at reducing the strategic arsenals to
3,000 for the Russian Federation and 3,500 for the United States by the
year 2003;

"Conscious that the recent steps taken by the Russian Federation and
the United States of America towards a reduction of their nuclear weapons
and the improvement in the international climate can contribute towards the
goal of complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

"Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, 1/ it is stated that all States
should actively participate in efforts to bring about conditions in
international relations among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of
nations in international affairs could be agreed upon and that would
preclude the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

1/ Resolution S-10/2.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 5

"Reaffirming that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of
the Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

"Stressing that this Convention would be a step towards the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament
under strict and effective international control,

"Noting with regret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its
1993 session, was unable to undertake negotiations on this subject,

"1. Reiterates its request to the Conference on Disarmament to
commence negotiations, as a matter of priority, in order to reach agreement
on an international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons under any circumstances, taking as a possible basis the
draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons annexed
to the present resolution;

"2. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the
General Assembly on the results of those negotiations.

"Annex

"DRAFT CONVENTION ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE USE
OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

"The States Parties to this Convention,

"Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the
existence of nuclear weapons,

"Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of
the Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

"Convinced that this Convention would be a step towards the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament
under strict and effective international control,

"Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

"Have agreed as follows:

"Article 1

"The States Parties to this Convention solemnly undertake not to use
or threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

"Article 2

"This Convention shall be of unlimited duration.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 6

"Article 3

"1. This Convention shall be open to all States for signature. Any
State that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any time.

"2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory
States. Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with
the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

"3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deposit of
instruments of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the
Governments of the five nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with
paragraph 2 of this article.

"4. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of the Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

"5. The depositary shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding
States of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each
instrument of ratification or accession and the date of the entry into
force of this Convention, as well as of the receipt of other notices.

"6. This Convention shall be registered by the depositary in
accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

"Article 4

"This Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French,
Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with
the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send duly certified
copies thereof to the Government of the signatory and acceding States.

"IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by
their respective Governments, have signed this convention, opened for
signature at _____ on the _____ day of _____ one thousand nine hundred and
_____."

9. On 2 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/48/L.13/Rev.1), which contained the following change: the sixth
preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Reaffirming that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of
the Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared
in its resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 B of
14 December 1978, 34/83 G of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980
and 36/92 I of 9 December 1981,".

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 7

10. At the 22nd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of India introduced
a revised draft resolution on behalf of the original sponsors
(A/C.1/48/L.13/Rev.2), which was later also sponsored by Haiti, Honduras and the
Sudan. It contained the following change: the third preambular paragraph was
revised to read:

"Welcoming the Treaty on the Further Reduction and Limitation of
Strategic Offensive Arms (START II) between the Russian Federation and the
United States of America aimed at reducing the strategic arsenals to an
aggregate level not to exceed 3,500 deployed strategic warheads for each
side no later than the year 2003,".

11. At its 27th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.13/Rev.2 by a recorded vote of 102 to 21, with 23 abstentions (see
para. 20, draft resolution B). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain,
Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Estonia, Georgia,
Greece, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Malta, Marshall Islands, New Zealand, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Slovenia, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 8

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.14

12. At the 20th meeting, on 5 November, the representative of Nigeria, on
behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, China,
Costa Rica, Cuba, the Czech Republic, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Japan, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Mongolia, Myanmar, Namibia,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Senegal,
Slovakia, Sweden, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, the United Republic of
Tanzania, the United States of America, Venezuela, Viet Nam and Zimbabwe,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "United Nations disarmament fellowship,
training and advisory services programme" (A/C.1/48/L.14), which was later also
sponsored by Jamaica, Nepal, Panama, the Philippines and the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia.

13. At its 24th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.14 without a vote (see para. 20, draft resolution C).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.20

14. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Mexico, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Mexico, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Ukraine and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "United Nations Disarmament Information Programme" (A/C.1/48/L.20),
which was later also sponsored by Honduras and the Philippines.

15. At its 24th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.20 without a vote (see para. 20, draft resolution D).

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.23

16. On 3 November, Bolivia, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, India,
Indonesia, Mexico and Myanmar submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Nuclear-arms freeze" (A/C.1/48/L.23), which was later also sponsored by
Honduras, Panama and the Sudan. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling that, in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, 1/ the first special session devoted to disarmament,
adopted in 1978 and unanimously and categorically reaffirmed in 1982 during
the twelfth special session of the General Assembly, 2/ the second
special session devoted to disarmament, the Assembly expressed deep concern
over the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the existence of
nuclear weapons,

2/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 9

"Reaffirming the goal of general and complete disarmament under
effective international control,

"Noting the new trends that have led to an improvement in the
international security environment,

"Welcoming the announcement of the significant measures, including
unilateral steps, by the Russian Federation and the United States of
America, which could signal the cessation and reversal of the nuclear-arms
race,

"Encouraged by the decision of the Conference on Disarmament of
10 August 1993 to commence negotiations on a universally applicable and
internationally verifiable comprehensive test-ban treaty,

"Welcoming the Treaty between the United States of America and the
Russian Federation on further reduction and limitation of strategic
offensive arms, signed at Moscow on 3 January 1993,

"Welcoming also the moratoriums on nuclear-weapon tests currently
observed by France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America,

"Convinced of the urgency of further negotiations for the substantial
reduction and qualitative limitation of existing nuclear arms,

"Considering that a nuclear-arms freeze, while not an end in itself,
would constitute an effective step to prevent the qualitative improvement
of existing nuclear weaponry during the period when the negotiations take
place, and that it would at the same time reinforce the favourable
environment for the conduct of negotiations to reduce and eventually
eliminate nuclear weapons,

"Welcoming the unilateral steps taken by the nuclear-weapon States for
the cessation of the production of highly enriched uranium for nuclear
weapons and for the shutting down of reactors producing weapons-grade
plutonium,

"Noting with concern that all nuclear-weapon States have not so far
taken any collective action in response to the call made in the relevant
resolutions on the question of a nuclear-arms freeze,

"Convinced also that the current international situation is most
conducive to nuclear disarmament,

"1. Calls upon all States, particularly the nuclear-weapon States, to
agree, through a joint declaration, to a comprehensive nuclear-arms freeze,
whose structure and scope would be the following:

(a) It would embrace:

(i) A comprehensive test ban on nuclear weapons;

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 10

(ii) The complete cessation of the manufacture of nuclear weapons and
of their delivery vehicles;

(iii) A ban on all further deployment of nuclear weapons and of their
delivery vehicles;

(iv) The complete cessation of the production of fissionable material
for weapons purposes;

(b) It would be subject to an appropriate and effective integrated
multilateral verification system;

"2. Requests once again the nuclear-weapon States to submit a joint
report, or separate reports, to the General Assembly, prior to the opening
of its forty-ninth session, on the implementation of the present
resolution;

"3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled ’Nuclear-arms freeze’."

17. At the 27th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of India withdrew
draft resolution A/C.1.48/L.23.

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.29

18. At the 22nd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Peru, on behalf
of Algeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Bangladesh, China, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic (on behalf of the
Group of Latin American and Caribbean States), Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Kyrgyzstan, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal,
Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Viet Nam,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace
and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean"
(A/C.1/48/L.29), which was later also sponsored by Costa Rica, Honduras,
Malaysia and Panama.

19. At its 24th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.29 without a vote (see para. 20, draft resolution E).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

20. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 11

Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly

A

Regional confidence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security in
accordance with its Charter,

Bearing in mind the guidelines for general and complete disarmament adopted
at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to disarmament,

Recalling also its resolutions 43/78 H and 43/85 of 7 December 1988, 44/21
of 15 November 1989, 45/58 M of 4 December 1990, 46/37 B of 6 December 1991 and
47/53 F of 15 December 1992,

Considering the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building
measures taken at the initiative and with the participation of all States
concerned and taking into account the specific characteristics of each region,
in that they can contribute to regional disarmament and to international
security, in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations,

Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional
disarmament, can be devoted to economic and social development and to the
protection of the environment for the benefit of all peoples, in particular
those of the developing countries,

Bearing in mind the establishment by the Secretary-General on 28 May 1992
of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the
purpose of which is to encourage arms limitation, disarmament, non-proliferation
and development in the subregion,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on regional
confidence-building measures, 3/ which deals chiefly with the meetings of the
Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, held at
Bujumbura in March 1993 and at Libreville in August and September 1993;

2. Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-
building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to ease regional
tensions and to further disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful
settlement of disputes in Central Africa;

3/ A/48/412.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 12

3. Also reaffirms its support for the programme of work of the Committee
adopted at the organizational meeting of the Standing Advisory Committee held at
Yaoundé from 27 to 31 July 1992;

4. Welcomes the results of the meetings of the Standing Advisory Committee
held at Bujumbura and at Libreville, particularly the adoption of the
non-aggression pact between the States members of the Economic Community of
Central African States, a pact that is likely to contribute to the prevention of
conflicts and to confidence-building in the subregion;

5. Takes note of the readiness of the States members of the Economic
Community of Central African States to reduce the military forces, equipment and
budgets in the subregion and to carry out a study on that subject;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide assistance to
the Central African States in implementing the programme of work of the Standing
Advisory Committee;

7. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session a report on the implementation of the present
resolution;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session
the item entitled "Regional confidence-building measures".

B

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly,

Convinced that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious threat to
the survival of mankind,

Convinced also that a multilateral agreement prohibiting the use or threat
of use of nuclear weapons should strengthen international security and
contribute to the climate for negotiations leading to the ultimate elimination
of nuclear weapons,

Welcoming the Treaty on the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic
Offensive Arms (START II) between the Russian Federation and the United States
of America aimed at reducing the strategic arsenals to an aggregate level not to
exceed 3,500 deployed strategic warheads for each side no later than the
year 2003,

Conscious that the recent steps taken by the Russian Federation and the
United States of America towards a reduction of their nuclear weapons and the
improvement in the international climate can contribute towards the goal of
complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 13

Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 4/ it is stated that all States should
actively participate in efforts to bring about conditions in international
relations among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of nations in
international affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared in its
resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 of 14 December 1978, 34/83 G
of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 I of
9 December 1981,

Stressing that this Convention would be a step towards the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament under
strict and effective international control,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its 1993
session, was unable to undertake negotiations on this subject,

1. Reiterates its request to the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiations, as a matter of priority, in order to reach agreement on an
international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
under any circumstances, taking as a possible basis the draft Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolution;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly on the results of those negotiations.

Annex

DRAFT CONVENTION ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

The States Parties to this Convention,

Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the
existence of nuclear weapons,

Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

Convinced also that this Convention would be a step towards the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament under
strict and effective international control,

Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Have agreed as follows:

4/ Resolution S-10/2.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 14

Article 1

The States Parties to this Convention solemnly undertake not to use or
threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

Article 2

This Convention shall be of unlimited duration.

Article 3

1. This Convention shall be open to all States for signature. Any State
that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in accordance with
paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any time.

2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory States.
Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.

3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deposit of instruments
of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the Governments of the
five nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article.

4. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of the Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

5. The depositary shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding States
of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument of
ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of this
Convention, as well as of the receipt of other notices.

6. This Convention shall be registered by the depositary in accordance
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

Article 4

This Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and
Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send duly certified copies
thereof to the Government of the signatory and acceding States.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Convention, opened for signature at
__________ on the __________ day of __________ one thousand nine hundred and
__________.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 15

C

United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and
advisory services programme

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations
disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services programme, 5/

Recalling its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 4/ the first special session
devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowships on disarmament,
as well as its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, 6/ the second special session
devoted to disarmament, in which it decided, inter alia, to continue the
programme,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme has already trained an
appreciable number of public officials selected from geographical regions
represented in the United Nations system, most of whom are now in positions of
responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs in their respective countries
or Governments,

Recalling its resolutions 37/100 G of 13 December 1982, 38/73 C of
15 December 1983, 39/63 B of 12 December 1984, 40/151 H of 16 December 1985,
41/60 H of 3 December 1986, 42/39 I of 30 November 1987, 43/76 F of
7 December 1988, 44/117 E of 15 December 1989, 45/59 A of 4 December 1990,
46/37 E of 6 December 1991 and 47/53 A of 9 December 1992,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme, as designed, has enabled an
increased number of public officials, particularly from the developing
countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of disarmament,

Believing that the forms of assistance available to Member States,
particularly to developing countries, under the programme will enhance the
capabilities of their officials to follow ongoing deliberations and negotiations
on disarmament, both bilateral and multilateral,

1. Reaffirms its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly and the report
of the Secretary-General 7/ approved by resolution 33/71 E of
14 December 1978;

5/ A/48/469.

6/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32.

7/ A/33/305.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 16

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Finland, Germany,
Japan and Sweden for inviting the 1993 fellows to study selected activities in
the field of disarmament, thereby contributing to the fulfilment of the overall
objectives of the programme;

3. Notes with satisfaction that, within the framework of the programme,
the Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat organizes regional
disarmament workshops for Africa, Asia and the Pacific, and Latin America and
the Caribbean;

4. Commends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the
programme has continued to be carried out;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue the implementation of the
Geneva-based programme within existing resources and to report thereon to the
General Assembly at its forty-ninth session.

D

United Nations Disarmament Information Programme

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision taken in 1982 at its twelfth special session, the
second special session devoted to disarmament, by which the World Disarmament
Campaign was launched, 8/

Bearing in mind its various resolutions on the subject, including
resolution 47/53 D of 9 December 1992, in which it decided, inter alia, that the
World Disarmament Campaign should be known thereafter as the "United Nations
Disarmament Information Programme" and the World Disarmament Campaign Voluntary
Trust Fund as the "Voluntary Trust Fund for the United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme",

Having examined the reports of the Secretary-General of 24 August 1993 on
the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme, 9/ and of
22 September 1993 on the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters relating to the
implementation of the Disarmament Information Programme, 10/ as well as the
Final Act of the Eleventh United Nations Pledging Conference for the
Programme, 11/ held on 29 October 1993,

8/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, paras. 110 and 111.

9/ A/48/326.

10/ A/48/325.

11/ See A/CONF.170/L.2.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 17

Noting with appreciation the contributions that Member States have already
made to the Programme,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General of 24 August 1993 on the
United Nations Disarmament Information Programme; 9/

2. Commends the Secretary-General for his efforts to make effective use
of the resources available to him in disseminating as widely as possible
information on arms limitation and disarmament to elected officials, the media,
non-governmental organizations, educational communities and research institutes,
and in carrying out an active seminar and conference programme;

3. Notes with appreciation the contributions to the efforts of the
Programme by the United Nations information centres and the regional centres for
disarmament;

4. Recommends that the Programme should further focus its efforts:

(a) To inform, to educate and to generate public understanding of the
importance of and support for multilateral action, including action by the
United Nations and the Conference on Disarmament, in the field of arms
limitation and disarmament, in a factual, balanced and objective manner;

(b) To facilitate unimpeded access to and an exchange of information on
ideas between the public sector and public interest groups and organizations,
and to provide an independent source of balanced and factual information that
takes into account a range of views to help further an informed debate on arms
limitation, disarmament and security;

(c) To organize meetings to facilitate exchanges of views and information
between governmental and non-governmental sectors and between governmental and
other experts in order to facilitate the search for common ground;

5. Invites all Member States to contribute to the Voluntary Trust Fund
for the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;

6. Commends the Secretary-General for supporting the efforts of
universities, other academic institutions and non-governmental organizations
active in the educational field in widening the world-wide availability of
disarmament education, and invites him to continue to support and cooperate,
without cost to the regular budget of the United Nations, with educational
institutions and non-governmental organizations engaged in such efforts;

7. Decides that at its forty-ninth session there should be a twelfth
United Nations Pledging Conference for the United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme, and expresses the hope that on that occasion all those
Member States which have not yet announced any voluntary contributions will do
so, bearing in mind the objectives of the Third Disarmament Decade and the need
to ensure its success;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session a report covering both the implementation of the

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 18

activities of the Programme by the United Nations system during 1994 and the
activities of the Programme contemplated by the system for 1995;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "United Nations Disarmament Information Programme".

E

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development

in Latin America and the Caribbean

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41/60 D of
3 December 1986, 42/39 J of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 D of 7 December 1988 on
the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, 41/60 J
of 3 December 1986, 42/39 K of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 H of 7 December 1988
on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in
Latin America and the Caribbean, 42/39 D of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 G of
7 December 1988 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia, 44/117 F of 15 December 1989, 45/59 E of 4 December 1990 and 46/37 F of
9 December 1991 and its decision 47/421 of 9 December 1992 on the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, the United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the
Caribbean,

Reaffirming its resolutions 46/36 F of 6 December 1991 and 47/52 G of
9 December 1992 on regional disarmament, including confidence-building measures,

Mindful of the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the
United Nations stipulating that a function of the General Assembly is to
consider the general principles of cooperation in the maintenance of
international peace and security, including the principles governing disarmament
and arms limitation,

Bearing in mind that the changed international environment has created new
opportunities for the pursuit of disarmament, as well as posed new challenges,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General containing the steps
taken to strengthen the Centre for Disarmament Affairs, 12/

Convinced that the initiatives and activities mutually agreed upon by
Member States of the respective regions aimed at fostering confidence, as well

12/ A/48/358.

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 19

as the implementation and coordination of regional activities under the United
Nations Disarmament Information Programme, would encourage and facilitate the
development of effective measures of confidence-building, arms limitation and
disarmament in these regions,

Welcoming the programme of activities carried out by the regional centres,
which have contributed substantially to understanding and cooperation among the
States in each particular region and have thereby strengthened the role assigned
to each regional centre in the areas of peace, disarmament and development,

Taking note of the views on the regional centres contained in the report of
the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, 10/

Recognizing the need to provide the regional centres with financial
viability and stability so as to facilitate the effective planning and
implementation of their respective programmes of activities,

Expressing its gratitude to the Member States and international
governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations that have
contributed to the trust funds of the three regional centres,

1. Commends the activities being carried out by the regional centres in
identifying and broadening the understanding of pressing disarmament and
security issues, and exploring optimum solutions under given specific conditions
prevailing in each region, in accordance with their mandates;

2. Encourages the regional centres to continue intensifying their efforts
in promoting cooperation among the States in their respective regions to
facilitate the development of effective measures of confidence-building, arms
limitation and disarmament, with a view to strengthening peace and security;

3. Encourages also further use of the potential of the regional centres
to maintain the increased interest in and momentum for revitalization of the
Organization to meet the challenges of a new phase of international relations in
order to fulfil the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
related to peace, disarmament and development, taking into account the
guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to disarmament within the
context of global security as adopted by the Disarmament Commission at its 1993
substantive session;

4. Appeals once again to Member States, as well as to international
governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations, to make
voluntary contributions in order to strengthen the programmes of activities of
the regional centres and their effective implementation;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide all necessary
support to the regional centres in carrying out their programmes of activities;

6. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

/...



A/48/677
English
Page 20

7. Decides to include the item entitled "United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace
and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean" in the
provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session.

-----


