





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/676
13 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 71

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"General and complete disarmament:

"(a) Notification of nuclear tests;

"(b) Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological weapons;

"(c) Prohibition of the production of fissionable material for weapons
purposes;

"(d) Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes;

"(e) Relationship between disarmament and development;

"(f) Regional disarmament;

"(g) Transparency in armaments;

"(h) International arms transfers;

"(i) Conventional disarmament on a regional scale"

93-69023 (E) 141293 /...



A/48/676
English
Page 2

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-eighth session of the
General Assembly in accordance with its resolutions 42/38 C of 30 November 1987,
47/52 B, C, D, F, G and J of 9 December 1992 and 47/52 L of 15 December 1992,
and decisions 47/419 and 47/420 of 9 December 1992.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to
it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and 28 October (see
A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place
at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.18-23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place at
the 24th to 30th meetings, on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 71, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on conventional disarmament on a
regional scale (A/48/228);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on international arms transfers
(A/48/324);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the Register of Conventional Arms
(A/48/344 and Add.1);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the relationship between
disarmament and development (A/48/400);

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on notification of nuclear tests
(A/48/171 and Add.1 and 2);

(f) Letter dated 10 February 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Belarus to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/86);

(g) Letter dated 16 March 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Mexico
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/115-S/25419);

(h) Letter dated 19 March 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Costa Rica to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/48/119-S/25439);

(i) Letter dated 7 April 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Costa Rica to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/131-S/25552);

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 3

(j) Letter dated 12 April 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/135-S/25581);

(k) Letter dated 13 April 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Turkey to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/48/137-S/25593);

(l) Letter dated 15 April 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Croatia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/154-S/25614);

(m) Letter dated 26 April 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Norway
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/157-S/25665);

(n) Letter dated 4 May 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Paraguay
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/160-S/25734 and
Corr.1);

(o) Letter dated 11 May 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Panama
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/165-S/25762);

(p) Letter dated 12 May 1993 from the Acting Permanent Representative of
the Czech Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/166-S/25767);

(q) Letter dated 19 May 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Honduras
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/179-S/25853);

(r) Letter dated 28 May 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Nicaragua to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/48/190-S/25890);

(s) Letter dated 23 June 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the results of the session of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union held at New Delhi from 9 to 17 April 1993 (A/48/222);

(t) Letter dated 12 July 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Mexico
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/260);

(u) Letter dated 16 July 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of China to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the Final Statement of the eleventh session of
the Inter-Action Council (A/48/272-S/26108);

(v) Letter dated 4 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Brazil
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the final
document of the third Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government
(A/48/291-S/26242);

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 4

(w) Letter dated 6 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/300-S/26262);

(x) Letter dated 30 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Marshall Islands to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the communiqué of the Twenty-Fourth South Pacific Forum (A/48/359);

(y) Letter dated 5 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of China
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/477);

(z) Letter dated 6 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/48/480-S/26547);

(aa) Letter dated 6 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the communiqué of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the Movement of the Non-Aligned Countries, held in New York on
4 October 1993 (A/48/484-S/26552);

(bb) Letter dated 28 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Cyprus to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the communiqué at the Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth
held at Limassol, Cyprus, from 21 to 25 October 1993 (A/48/564);

(cc) Letter dated 11 November 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/48/594-S/26733 and Corr.1);

(dd) Letter dated 19 November 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/620-S/26770 and Corr.1);

(ee) Letter dated 26 November 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/658-S/26803);

(ff) Letter dated 12 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/48/3);

(gg) Letter dated 25 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Chairman of the First
Committee (A/C.1/48/6);

(hh) Letter dated 4 November 1993 from the Permanent Representatives of
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of
Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/48/8).

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 5

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft decision A/C.1/48/L.4

5. On 27 October, Peru submitted a draft decision entitled "Conventional
disarmament on a regional scale" (A/C.1/48/L.4), which read:

"The General Assembly, on the recommendation of the First Committee
and recalling its decision 47/420 of 9 December 1992, decided: (a) To
welcome the report of the Secretary-General on this question; (b) To invite
Member States that have not yet done so to convey to the Secretary-General
their views on this matter; and (c) To include in the provisional agenda of
its forty-ninth session the item entitled ’Conventional disarmament on a
regional scale’."

At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Peru withdrew the
draft decision.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.7 and Rev.1

6. On 28 October, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Relationship between disarmament and development"
(A/C.1/48/L.7).

7. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Indonesia, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and Bolivia, introduced a revised draft
resolution (A/C.1/48/L.7/Rev.1), which was later also sponsored by Haiti and the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and in which operative paragraph 2, which
had read:

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take action through
appropriate organs for the implementation of the action programme adopted
at the International Conference;"

was revised to read:

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take action,
through appropriate organs and within available resources, for the
implementation of the action programme adopted at the International
Conference".

8. At its 26th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.7/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 43, draft resolution A).

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 6

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.8 and Rev.1 and 2

9. On 28 October, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and nuclear
disarmament" (A/C.1/48/L.8), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its previous relevant resolutions,

"Recognizing the fundamental changes that have taken place with
respect to international security, which have permitted agreements on deep
reductions in nuclear armaments of the States possessing the largest
inventories of such weapons,

"Mindful that it is the responsibility and obligation of all States to
contribute to the process of the relaxation of international tension and to
the strengthening of international peace and security,

"Stressing the importance of strengthening international peace and
security through disarmament,

"Emphasizing that nuclear disarmament remains one of the principal
tasks of our times,

"Stressing that it is the responsibility of all States to adopt and
implement measures towards the attainment of general and complete
disarmament under effective international control,

"Appreciating a number of positive developments in the field of
nuclear disarmament, in particular the intermediate-range nuclear forces
agreement and the Treaty on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic
Offensive Arms,

"Noting that there are still significant nuclear arsenals and that the
primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament, with the objective of the
elimination of nuclear weapons, rests with the nuclear-weapon States, in
particular those which possess the largest stockpiles,

"Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to
begin the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and removing
such weapons from a deployed status,

"Noting the new climate of relations between two major Powers, which
permit them to intensify their cooperative efforts so as to ensure the
safety, security and environmentally sound destruction of nuclear weapons,

"Urging the further intensification of such efforts to accelerate the
implementation of agreements and unilateral decisions relating to
nuclear-arms reduction,

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 7

"Welcoming the reductions made by other nuclear-weapon States in some
of their arsenals, and encouraging all nuclear-weapon States to consider
appropriate measures relating to nuclear disarmament,

"Affirming that bilateral and multilateral negotiations on nuclear
disarmament should facilitate and complement each other,

"1. Expresses its satisfaction at the continued implementation of the
Treaty on the Elimination of Intermediate-range and Shorter-range
Missiles, 1/ in particular at the completion by the parties of the
destruction of all their declared missiles subject to elimination under the
Treaty;

"2. Welcomes the signing of the Second Treaty on the Reduction and
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, and urges the parties to take the
steps necessary to bring this Treaty into force at the earliest possible
date;

"3. Also welcomes the announcement by the United States of America to
seek a ban on the production of nuclear materials for weapons as well as
international inspection of its stockpiles;

"4. Encourages the United States of America, the Russian Federation,
Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine to continue their cooperative efforts aimed
at eliminating nuclear weapons and strategic offensive arms on the basis of
existing agreements, and welcomes the contributions that other States are
making to such cooperation as well;

"5. Further encourages and supports the United States of America and
the Russian Federation in their efforts to reduce their nuclear armaments
and to continue to give these efforts the highest priority in order to
contribute to the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons;

"6. Invites the United States of America and the Russian Federation
to keep other States Members of the United Nations duly informed of
progress in their discussions and in the implementation of their strategic
offensive arms agreements and unilateral decisions."

10. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Indonesia, on
behalf of Australia, Bolivia, France, Indonesia (on behalf of the States Members
of the United Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries), the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the United States of America, introduced a revised draft
resolution (A/C.1/48/L.8/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

(a) The seventh preambular paragraph was revised to read:

1/ The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 12, 1987 (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.88.IX.2), appendix VII.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 8

"Appreciating a number of positive developments in the field of
nuclear disarmament, in particular the Treaty between the former Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the
Elimination of Intermediate-range and Shorter-range Missiles and the
treaties on the reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms";

(b) The tenth preambular paragraph, was revised to read:

"Noting the new climate of relations between the United States of
America and the States of the former Soviet Union, which permits them to
intensify their cooperative efforts to ensure the safety, security and
environmentally sound destruction of nuclear weapons";

(c) Operative paragraph 1 became operative paragraph 3;

(d) Operative paragraphs 2 and 3 were replaced by the following text:

"1. Welcomes the actions taken towards the ratification of the Treaty
between the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United
States of America on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive
Arms signed in Moscow on 31 July 1991 and the protocol to that Treaty
signed in Lisbon on 23 May 1992 by the four parties thereto, and urges the
parties to take the necessary steps to ensure its entry into force at the
earliest possible date;

"2. Also welcomes the signing of the Treaty between the Government of
the Russian Federation and the Government of the United States of America
on the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms in
Moscow on 3 January 1993, and urges the parties to take the steps necessary
to bring that Treaty into force at the earliest possible date".

11. On 11 November, the sponsors, now joined by Finland, Honduras, Japan, the
Marshall Islands, Norway, Sweden and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/48/L.8/Rev.2), which was later also
sponsored by Italy, New Zealand, Paraguay and Portugal, and in which the word
"arsenals" was replaced by the words "nuclear-weapon programmes" in the twelfth
preambular paragraph.

12. At its 27th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.8/Rev.2 without a vote (see para. 43, draft resolution B).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.10

13. At the 21st meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Mexico introduced
a draft resolution entitled "General and complete disarmament" (A/C.1/48/L.10),
which was later also sponsored by Bolivia and Rwanda.



A/48/676
English
Page 9

14. At its 25th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.10 by a recorded vote of 94 to 5, with 39 abstentions (see para. 43,
draft resolution C). The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lao Peoples’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: France, Israel, Russian Federation, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal, Slovakia, Spain,
Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine.

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.17

15. At the 21st meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Algeria, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group
of African States, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of the
dumping of radioactive wastes" (A/C.1/48/L.17), which was later also sponsored
by Bolivia and Haiti.

16. At its 26th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.17 without a vote (see para. 43, draft resolution D).

2/ Subsequently, the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had intended
to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 10

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.18

17. At the 20th meeting, on 5 November, the representative of the Netherlands,
on behalf of Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, the Central African Republic, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali, Nepal,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of
Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Senegal,
Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Transparency in armaments" (A/C.1/48/L.18), which was later
also sponsored by Albania, Bolivia, Cape Verde, Chile, Estonia, Haiti,
Lithuania, Malta, Nicaragua, Panama and Slovenia.

18. At its 24th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.18 without a vote (see para. 43, draft resolution E).

G. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.25

19. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Indonesia, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Request for an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the
legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons" (A/C.1/48/L.25).

20. At the 30th meeting, on 19 November, the sponsors decided not to press for
action on draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.25, which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Conscious that the continuing existence and development of nuclear
weapons pose serious risks to humanity,

"Mindful that States have an obligation under the Charter of the
United Nations to refrain from the threat or use of force against the
territorial integrity or political independence of any State,

"Recalling its resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 B of
14 December 1978, 34/83 G of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of
12 December 1980, 36/92 I of 9 December 1981, 45/59 B of 4 December 1990
and 46/37 D of 6 December 1991 in which it declared that the use of nuclear
weapons would be a violation of the Charter of the United Nations and a
crime against humanity,

"Welcoming the progress made on the prohibition and elimination of
weapons of mass destruction, including the Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological)

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 11

and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction 3/ and the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical
Weapons and on Their Destruction, 4/

"Convinced that the complete elimination of nuclear weapons is the
only guarantee against the threat of nuclear war,

"Noting the concerns expressed in the Fourth Review Conference of the
Parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, 5/ that insufficient progress
had been made towards the complete elimination of nuclear weapons at the
earliest possible time,

"Recalling that the General Assembly, convinced of the need to
strengthen the rule of law in international relations, has declared the
period 1990-1999 the United Nations Decade of International Law, 6/

"Noting that Article 96 (1) of the Charter of the United Nations
empowers the General Assembly to request the International Court of Justice
to give an advisory opinion on any legal question,

"Recalling the recommendation of the Secretary-General, made in An
Agenda for Peace, 7/ that United Nations organs that are authorized to
take advantage of the advisory competence of the International Court of
Justice turn to the Court more frequently for such opinions,

"Welcoming resolution 46/40 of 14 May 1993 of the Assembly of the
World Health Organization, in which the organization requests the
International Court of Justice to give an advisory opinion on whether the
use of nuclear weapons by a State in war or other armed conflict would be a
breach of its obligations under international law, including the
Constitution of the World Health Organization,

"Decides, pursuant to Article 96 (1) of the Charter, to request the
International Court of Justice to urgently render its advisory opinion on
the following question, ’Is the threat or use of nuclear weapons in any
circumstance permitted under international law?’."

3/ Resolution 2826 (XXVI), annex.

4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), appendix I.

5/ NPT/CONF.IV/45/I.

6/ Resolution 45/40.

7/ A/47/277-S/24111.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 12

H. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.27 and Rev.1

21. At the 21st meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Colombia, on
behalf of Australia, Belarus, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the
Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Panama, Peru, the Philippines,
Slovakia, Sri Lanka and Turkey introduced a draft resolution entitled
"International arms transfers" (A/C.1/48/L.27), which was later also sponsored
by Kenya, Spain, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago
and Zimbabwe.

22. On 15 November, the original sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/48/L.27/Rev.1), in which the words "to consider including the issue of
international arms transfers" were replaced by the words "to include the
question of international arms transfers" in operative paragraph 4.

23. At its 28th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.27/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 143 to none, with 1 abstention (see
para. 43, draft resolution F). The voting was as follows: 8/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

8/ Subsequently, the delegations of Afghanistan and Djibouti indicated
that they had intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 13

Against: None.

Abstaining: United States of America.

I. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.28

24. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Germany, on
behalf of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica, the Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia,
Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the United States of America introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Regional disarmament" (A/C.1/48/L.28), which was later also sponsored
by Cape Verde, Haiti, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands,
Nicaragua, Panama, Slovenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and
Turkey.

25. At its 28th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.28 without a vote (see para. 43, draft resolution G).

J. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.31 and Rev.1 and 2

26. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Afghanistan
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Measures to curb the transfer and use of
illicit arms" (A/C.1/48/L.31), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 46/36 H of 6 December 1991 and its
decision 47/419 of 9 December 1992 on international arms transfers,

"Considering that most of the armed conflicts around the world are
caused by a massive increase in the availability of conventional weapons,

"Stressing the need for restriction on export and sale of such
weapons,

"Recognizing that the excessive quantity of conventional weapons in a
number of developing countries constitutes a source of destabilization of
their national, as well as their regional, security,

"Convinced that peace and security are imperatives for economic
development and reconstruction,

"1. Invites Member States to take appropriate enforcement measures
aimed at putting an end to illegal export of conventional weapons from
their territories;

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 14

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Governments
on effective ways and means for collecting weapons illegally distributed in
many developing countries and to submit a report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session."

27. On 11 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/48/L.31/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

(a) The second preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Considering that the availability of massive quantities of
conventional weapons is a contributory factor to armed conflicts around the
world";

(b) The third preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Stressing the need for measures which curb the transfer and use of
illicit arms".

28. On 18 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/48/L.31/Rev.2) which contained the following changes:

(a) The title was revised to read "Measures to curb the illicit transfer
and use of conventional arms";

(b) The third preambular paragraph was further revised to read:

"Stressing the need for measures that curb the illicit transfer and
use of conventional arms".

29. At the 30th meeting, on 19 November, the representative of Cuba introduced
an amendment (A/C.1/48/L.56) to draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.31/Rev.2, by which:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the word "developing" before the
word "countries" would be deleted;

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the words "many developing countries" would
be replaced by the words "countries, in the event that such countries so
request,".

30. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the amendment in
paragraph 29 (a) above by a recorded vote of 105 to 1, with 34 abstentions. The
voting was as follows: 9/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,

9/ Subsequently, the delegations of the Dominican Republic and Nigeria
indicated that they had intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 15

Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Samoa, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Afghanistan.

Abstaining: Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Israel, Italy, Kuwait,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America, Venezuela.

31. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted the amendment in
paragraph 29 (b) above by a recorded vote of 100 to 1, with 40 abstentions. The
voting was as follows: 9/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 16

Against: Afghanistan.

Abstaining: Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Guyana, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Panama, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Venezuela.

32. Also at its 30th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.31/Rev.2, as amended, by a recorded vote of 108 to none, with
33 abstentions (see para. 43, draft resolution H). The voting was as
follows: 9/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Brunei
Darussalam, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ethiopia, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Madagascar,
Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Republic
of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovenia,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Bahamas, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Estonia, Finland, Ghana, Guyana, Jamaica, Latvia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Panama, Poland,
Slovakia, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania,
Venezuela, Zimbabwe.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 17

K. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.36

33. At the 28th meeting on 18 November, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada,
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Haiti,
Italy, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali, the Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Nepal, New Zealand, the Niger, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Poland, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, the
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United States of
America, Vanuatu and Zambia, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Regional
disarmament" (A/C.1/48/L.36), which was later also sponsored by Albania,
Armenia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Czech Republic,
Ecuador, Honduras, Malta, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Turkmenistan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, Venezuela and Zimbabwe.

34. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.36
by a recorded vote of 139 to none, with 1 abstention (see para. 43, draft
resolution I). The voting was as follows: 10/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian
Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

10/ Subsequently, the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 18

Against: None.

Abstaining: India.

L. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.38 and Rev.1

35. On 4 November, the representative of Pakistan submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels"
(A/C.1/48/L.38).

36. At the 28th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of Pakistan and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/48/L.38/Rev.1), which was later
also sponsored by Haiti, Panama and Swaziland. The revised draft resolution
contained the following changes:

(a) The third preambular paragraph, which had read:

"Aware that the preservation of a balance in the defence capabilities
of States at the lowest level of armaments, both in qualitative and
quantitative terms, would contribute to peace and stability and should be a
prime objective of conventional arms control"

was revised to read:

"Aware that the preservation of a balance in the defence capabilities
of States at the lowest level of armaments would contribute to peace and
stability and should be a prime objective of conventional arms control";

(b) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

"2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament, as a first step, to
consider the formulation of principles that could be applied to regional
arms control negotiations and looks forward to a report of the Conference
on this subject"

was revised to read:

"2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament, as a first step, to
consider the formulation of principles that can serve as a framework for
regional agreements on conventional arms control, and looks forward to a
report of the Conference on this subject";

37. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.38/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 123 to none, with 15 abstentions (see
para. 43, draft resolution J). The voting was as follows: 11/

11/ Subsequently, the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 19

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, China,
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States
of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Australia, Bahamas, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador,
India, Japan, Mexico, Peru, Singapore, Slovakia, Venezuela,
Viet Nam.

M. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.42

38. At the 24th meeting, on 11 November, the representative of the United
States of America, on behalf of Afghanistan, Argentina, Austria, Belgium,
Belize, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, Chad, Croatia, Denmark, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Finland, France, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Mongolia, Mozambique, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, the Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Sierra Leone, Sweden, Togo and the United States of America,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Moratorium on the export of
anti-personnel land-mines" (A/C.1/48/L.42), which was later also sponsored by
Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Cameroon, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, the Czech
Republic, Greece, Guyana, Honduras, Iceland, Israel, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lesotho, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Namibia,
Panama, Rwanda, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia.

39. At its 28th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.42 without a vote (see para. 43, draft resolution K).

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 20

N. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.44 and Rev.1

40. On 4 November, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, Germany, India, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
the Philippines, Poland, Sweden, the United States of America and Uruguay
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of the production of
fissionable material for weapon purposes" (A/C.1/48/L.44).

41. At the 27th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Canada, on
behalf of the sponsors, now joined by Belgium, Cameroon, Greece, Hungary, Italy,
Latvia, Luxembourg, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Panama, Portugal
and Spain, introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/48/L.44/Rev.1), in which
the title was revised to read "Prohibition of the production of fissile material
for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices".

42. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.44/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 43, draft resolution L).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

43. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

General and complete disarmament

A

Relationship between disarmament and development

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session
of the General Assembly 12/ concerning the relationship between disarmament
and development,

Recalling also the adoption on 11 September 1987 of the Final Document of
the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and
Development, 13/

Recalling further its resolution 47/52 F of 9 December 1992,

Bearing in mind the final documents of the Tenth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to
6 September 1992, 14/

12/ Resolution S-10/2.

13/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8.

14/ See A/47/675-S/24816, annex.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 21

Stressing the growing importance of the symbiotic relationship between
disarmament and development in current international relations,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General 15/ and actions
undertaken in accordance with the Final Document of the International Conference
on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take action, through
appropriate organs and within available resources, for the implementation of the
action programme adopted at the International Conference; 16/

3. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Relationship between disarmament and development".

B

Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and
nuclear disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous relevant resolutions,

Recognizing the fundamental changes that have taken place with respect to
international security, which have permitted agreements on deep reductions in
the nuclear armaments of the States possessing the largest inventories of such
weapons,

Mindful that it is the responsibility and obligation of all States to
contribute to the process of the relaxation of international tension and to the
strengthening of international peace and security,

Stressing the importance of strengthening international peace and security
through disarmament,

Emphasizing that nuclear disarmament remains one of the principal tasks of
our times,

Stressing that it is the responsibility of all States to adopt and
implement measures towards the attainment of general and complete disarmament
under effective international control,

Appreciating a number of positive developments in the field of nuclear
disarmament, in particular the Treaty between the former Union of Soviet

15/ A/48/400.

16/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8, para. 35.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 22

Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the Elimination of
Intermediate-range and Shorter-range Missiles 17/ and the treaties on the
reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms,

Noting that there are still significant nuclear arsenals and that the
primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament, with the objective of the
elimination of nuclear weapons, rests with the nuclear-weapon States, in
particular those which possess the largest stockpiles,

Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to begin
the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and removing such weapons
from a deployed status,

Noting the new climate of relations between the United States of America
and the States of the former Soviet Union, which permits them to intensify their
cooperative efforts to ensure the safety, security and environmentally sound
destruction of nuclear weapons,

Urging the further intensification of such efforts to accelerate the
implementation of agreements and unilateral decisions relating to nuclear-arms
reduction,

Welcoming the reductions made by other nuclear-weapon States in some of
their nuclear-weapon programmes, and encouraging all nuclear-weapon States to
consider appropriate measures relating to nuclear disarmament,

Affirming that bilateral and multilateral negotiations on nuclear
disarmament should facilitate and complement each other,

1. Welcomes the actions taken towards the ratification of the Treaty
between the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms signed in
Moscow on 31 July 1991 and the protocol to that Treaty signed at Lisbon on
23 May 1992 by the four parties thereto, and urges the parties to take the
necessary steps to ensure its entry into force at the earliest possible date;

2. Also welcomes the signing of the Treaty between the Government of the
Russian Federation and the Government of the United States of America on the
Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms in Moscow on
3 January 1993, and urges the parties to take the steps necessary to bring that
Treaty into force at the earliest possible date;

3. Expresses its satisfaction at the continuing implementation of the
Treaty on the Elimination of Intermediate-range and Shorter-range Missiles, 17/
in particular at the completion by the parties of the destruction of all their
declared missiles subject to elimination under the Treaty;

17/ The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 12, 1987 (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.88.IX.2), appendix VII.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 23

4. Encourages the United States of America, the Russian Federation,
Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine to continue their cooperative efforts aimed at
eliminating nuclear weapons and strategic offensive arms on the basis of
existing agreements, and welcomes the contributions that other States are making
to such cooperation as well;

5. Further encourages and supports the Russian Federation and the United
States of America in their efforts to reduce their nuclear armaments and to
continue to give those efforts the highest priority in order to contribute to
the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons;

6. Invites the Russian Federation and the United States of America to
keep other States Members of the United Nations duly informed of progress in
their discussions and in the implementation of their strategic offensive arms
agreements and unilateral decisions.

C

General and complete disarmament

The General Assembly,

Aware of its role in the field of disarmament,

Aware also of the interest of the international community in continuing and
intensifying consideration of the question of the non-proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction and of vehicles for their delivery in all its aspects,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a short report containing a
brief description of the question of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction and of vehicles for their delivery and to transmit it, no later than
1 May 1994, to a representative intergovernmental group of experts for its
consideration and suggestions regarding further study of the question by the
international community in various multilateral disarmament forums;

2. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit his report, together
with the suggestions of the representative intergovernmental group of experts,
to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session an item entitled "Non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and
of vehicles for their delivery in all its aspects".

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 24

D

Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind resolutions CM/Res.1153 (XLVIII) of 1988 18/ and
CM/Res.1225 (L) of 1989, 19/ adopted by the Council of Ministers of the
Organization of African Unity, concerning the dumping of nuclear and industrial
wastes in Africa,

Welcoming resolution GC(XXXIII)/RES/509 on the dumping of nuclear wastes,
adopted on 29 September 1989 by the General Conference of the International
Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-third regular session, 20/

Welcoming also resolution GC(XXXIV)RES/530 establishing a Code of Practice
on the International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste, adopted on
21 September 1990 by the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy
Agency at its thirty-fourth regular session, 21/

Considering its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it
requested the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, 22/ inter alia, to
consider effective methods of control against the use of radiological methods of
warfare,

Recalling resolution CM/RES.1356 (LIV) of 1991, adopted by the Council of
Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, on the Bamako Convention on the
Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the Control of Their
Transboundary Movements within Africa, 23/

Aware of the potential hazards underlying any use of radioactive wastes
that would constitute radiological warfare and its implications for regional and
international security, in particular for the security of developing countries,

18/ See A/43/398, annex I.

19/ See A/44/603, annex I.

20/ See International Atomic Energy Agency, Resolutions and Other
Decisions of the General Conference, Thirty-third Regular Session,
25-29 September 1989 (GC(XXXIII)/RESOLUTIONS (1989)).

21/ Ibid., Thirty-fourth Regular Session, 17-21 September 1990
(GC(XXXIV)/RESOLUTIONS (1990)).

22/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

23/ See A/46/390, annex I.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 25

Recalling its resolutions 43/75 Q of 7 December 1988, 44/116 R of
15 December 1989, 45/58 K of 4 December 1990, 46/36 K of 6 December 1991 and
47/52 D of 9 December 1992,

Desirous of promoting the implementation of paragraph 76 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 24/

1. Takes note of the part of the report of the Conference on Disarmament
relating to a future convention on the prohibition of radiological
weapons; 25/

2. Expresses grave concern regarding any use of nuclear wastes that would
constitute radiological warfare and have grave implications for the national
security of all States;

3. Calls upon all States to take appropriate measures with a view to
preventing any dumping of nuclear or radioactive wastes that would infringe upon
the sovereignty of States;

4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to take into account, in the
negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of radiological weapons,
radioactive wastes as part of the scope of such a convention;

5. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify efforts
towards an early conclusion of such a convention and to include in its report to
the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session the progress recorded in the
negotiations on this subject;

6. Takes note of resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991, adopted by the
Council of Ministers of the Organization of Africa Unity, on the Bamako
Convention on the Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the
Control of Their Transboundary Movements within Africa;

7. Expresses the hope that the effective implementation of the
International Atomic Energy Agency Code of Practice on the International
Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste will enhance the protection of all
States from the dumping of radioactive wastes on their territories;

8. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue keeping
the subject under active review, including the desirability of concluding a
legally binding instrument in this field;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes".

24/ Resolution S-10/2.

25/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27), para. 40.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 26

E

Transparency in armaments

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 46/36 L of 9 December 1991 and 47/52 L of
15 December 1992,

Continuing to take the view that an enhanced level of transparency in
armaments contributes greatly to confidence-building and security among States
and that the establishment of the Register of Conventional Arms constitutes an
important step forward in the promotion of transparency in military matters,

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General on the first year of
operation of the Register of Conventional Arms, 26/

Encouraged by the response of Member States to the request contained in
paragraphs 9 and 10 of its resolution 46/36 L to provide data on their imports
and exports of arms, as well as available background information regarding their
military holdings, procurement through national production and relevant
policies,

Welcoming the work of the Conference on Disarmament under the item of its
agenda entitled "Transparency in armaments",

Welcoming also the organization by Member States of initiatives and
seminars intended to promote transparency in military matters through a
widespread reporting of data to the Register of Conventional Arms,

1. Reaffirms its determination to ensure the effective operation of the
Register of Conventional Arms as provided for in paragraphs 7, 9 and 10 of its
resolution 46/36 L;

2. Calls upon all Member States to provide the requested data and
information for the Register to the Secretary-General by 30 April annually;

3. Reaffirms its request to the Secretary-General to prepare a report,
with the assistance of a group of governmental experts to be convened in 1994 on
the basis of equitable geographical representation, on the continuing operation
of the Register and its further development, taking into account the work of the
Conference on Disarmament and the views expressed by Member States, so that a
decision may be taken at the forty-ninth session;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that sufficient resources are
made available for the United Nations Secretariat to operate and maintain the
Register;

26/ A/48/344 and Add.1.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 27

5. Encourages the Conference on Disarmament to continue its work
undertaken in response to the requests contained in paragraphs 12 to 15 of
resolution 46/36 L;

6. Reiterates its call upon all Member States to cooperate at a regional
and subregional level, taking fully into account the specific conditions
prevailing in the region or subregion, with a view to enhancing and coordinating
international efforts aimed at increased openness and transparency in armaments;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session on progress made in implementing the present resolution;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Transparency in armaments".

F

International arms transfers

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 43/75 I of 7 December 1988, 46/36 H of
6 December 1991 and 47/54 A of 9 December 1992, and its decisions 45/415 of
4 December 1990 and 47/419 of 9 December 1992,

Realizing the urgent need to resolve underlying conflicts, to diminish
tensions and to accelerate efforts towards general and complete disarmament with
a view to maintaining regional and international peace and security in a world
free from the scourge of war and the burden of armaments,

Reaffirming the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament and
the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps in order to strengthen
that role,

Recognizing that, in the context of international arms transfers, the
illicit arms traffic is a disturbing, dangerous and increasingly common
phenomenon, and that, with the technical sophistication and destructive
capability of conventional weapons, the destabilizing effects of the illicit
arms traffic increase,

Considering that, in the context of international arms transfers, the
illicit arms traffic, by its clandestine nature, defies transparency and until
now has escaped inclusion within the Register of Conventional Arms,

Realizing that arms obtained through the illicit arms traffic are most
likely to be used for violent purposes, and that even small arms so obtained,
directly or indirectly, by underground organizations such as mercenary groups
can pose a threat to the security and political stability of the States
affected,

Stressing that effective control over the imports and exports of
conventional weapons falls under the responsibility of Member States,

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 28

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General; 27/

2. Calls upon all Member States to give priority to eradicating the
illicit arms traffic associated with destabilizing activities, such as
terrorism, drug trafficking and common criminal acts, and to take immediate
action towards this end;

3. Urges Member States to monitor arms transfers effectively and to
strengthen or adopt strict measures in an effort to prevent arms from falling
into the hands of parties engaged in the illicit arms traffic;

4. Requests the Disarmament Commission, at its organizational session
in 1993, to include the question of international arms transfers, with
particular reference to General Assembly resolution 46/36 H, in the agenda of
its substantive session in 1994 and to report thereon to the Assembly at its
forty-ninth session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session an item entitled "International illicit arms traffic".

G

Regional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 47/52 G and 47/52 J of 9 December 1992,

Affirming the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and to international
law in the conduct of their international relations,

Believing that the efforts of the international community to move towards
the ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human
desire for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war and
the release of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful pursuits,

Noting that regional arrangements for disarmament and arms limitation may
free resources of participating States for peaceful purposes, inter alia, the
promotion of their economic and social development,

Reaffirming its firm conviction that the regional approach to disarmament
is essential to strengthening international peace and security at the regional
and global levels,

Welcoming the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation
and security undertaken by some countries at the regional level,

27/ A/48/324.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 29

Noting with satisfaction the important progress made in various regions of
the world through the adoption of arms limitation, peace, security and
cooperation agreements, including those related to the prohibition of weapons of
mass destruction, and encourages States in the regions concerned to continue
implementing those agreements,

Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament,
taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in
accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of
armaments for all the participating States, would enhance the security of all
States and would thus contribute to international peace and security,

Recognizing the useful role played by the United Nations regional centres,

Taking note of the report of the Disarmament Commission, containing the
text, adopted by the Commission at its 1993 substantive session, of the
guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to disarmament within the
context of global security, 28/

Expressing its appreciation for the work accomplished by the Disarmament
Commission in finalizing the text of those guidelines and recommendations,

1. Endorses the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to
disarmament within the context of global security 28/ adopted by the Disarmament
Commission at its 1993 substantive session, and recommends them to all Member
States for implementation;

2. Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament complement
each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to promote regional
and international peace and security;

3. Affirms also that multifaceted cooperation among States of a region,
especially encompassing the political, economic, social and cultural fields, can
be conducive to the strengthening of regional security and stability;

4. Encourages States to reach, wherever possible, freely concluded
agreements at the regional level on confidence- and security-building measures,
disarmament and arms limitations, arrangements to prevent the proliferation of
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in all its aspects, zones
of peace, zones free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction,
as well as consultative and cooperative arrangements;

5. Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building
measures at the regional level in order to ease regional tensions and to further
disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation measures at the regional level;

28/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42), annex II.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 30

6. Encourages States to address, in regional arrangements for disarmament
and arms limitations, the question of the accumulation of conventional weapons
beyond the legitimate self-defence requirements of States;

7. Also encourages States of a region to examine the possibility of
creating, on their own initiative, regional mechanisms and/or institutions for
the establishment of measures in the framework of an effort of regional
disarmament or for the prevention and peaceful settlement of disputes and
conflicts with the assistance, if requested, of the United Nations;

8. Invites Member States and regions to bring to the attention of the
General Assembly results achieved on regional disarmament, and requests the
Secretary-General to submit a report to the Assembly at its forty-ninth session
on the basis of the replies received;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Regional disarmament".

H

Measures to curb the illicit transfer
and use of conventional arms

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/36 H of 6 December 1991 and its decision 47/419
of 9 December 1992 on international arms transfers,

Considering that the availability of massive quantities of conventional
weapons is a contributory factor to armed conflicts around the world,

Stressing the need for measures that curb the illicit transfer and use of
conventional arms,

Recognizing that the excessive quantity of conventional weapons in a number
of countries constitutes a source of destabilization of their national and their
regional security,

Convinced that peace and security are imperatives for economic development
and reconstruction,

1. Invites Member States to take appropriate enforcement measures
directed at ending the illegal export of conventional weapons from their
territories;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Governments on
effective ways and means of collecting weapons illegally distributed in
countries, in the event that such countries so request, and to submit a report
to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 31

I

Regional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 45/58 P of 4 December 1990, 46/36 I of
6 December 1991 and 47/52 J of 9 December 1992,

Believing that the efforts of the international community to move towards
the ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human
desire for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war and
the release of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful pursuits,

Affirming the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in the conduct of
their international relations,

Noting that essential guidelines for progress towards general and complete
disarmament were adopted at the tenth special session of the General
Assembly, 29/

Noting also the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to
disarmament within the context of global security adopted by the Disarmament
Commission at its 1993 substantive session, 30/

Welcoming the prospects of genuine progress in the field of disarmament
engendered in recent years as a result of negotiations between the two
super-Powers,

Taking note of the recent proposals for disarmament and nuclear
non-proliferation at the regional and subregional levels,

Recognizing the importance of confidence-building measures for regional and
international peace and security,

Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament,
taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in
accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of
armaments, would enhance the security of smaller States and would thus
contribute to international peace and security by reducing the risk of regional
conflicts,

1. Stresses that sustained efforts are needed, within the framework of
the Conference on Disarmament and under the umbrella of the United Nations, to
make progress on the entire range of disarmament issues;

29/ Resolution S-10/2.

30/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42), annex II.

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 32

2. Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament complement
each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to promote regional
and international peace and security;

3. Calls upon States to conclude agreements, wherever possible, for
nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and confidence-building measures at
regional and subregional levels;

4. Welcomes the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear
non-proliferation and security undertaken by some countries at the regional and
subregional levels;

5. Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building
measures at regional and subregional levels in order to ease regional tensions
and to further disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation measures at regional
and subregional levels;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Regional disarmament".

J

Conventional arms control at the regional
and subregional levels

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the crucial role of conventional arms control in promoting
regional and international peace and security,

Convinced that conventional arms control needs to be primarily pursued in
the regional and subregional contexts since most threats to peace and security
in the post-cold-war era arise mainly among States located in the same region or
subregion,

Aware that the preservation of a balance in the defence capabilities of
States at the lowest level of armaments would contribute to peace and stability
and should be a prime objective of conventional arms control,

Desirous of promoting agreements to strengthen regional peace and security
at the lowest possible level of armaments and military forces,

Believing that militarily significant States, and States with larger
military capabilities, have a special responsibility in promoting such
agreements for regional security,

Believing also that one of the principal objectives of conventional arms
control should be to prevent the possibility of military attack launched by
surprise,

1. Decides to give urgent consideration to the issues involved in
conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels;

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 33

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament, as a first step, to consider
the formulation of principles that can serve as a framework for regional
agreements on conventional arms control, and looks forward to a report of the
Conference on this subject;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session an item entitled "Conventional arms control at the regional and
subregional levels".

K

Moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines

The General Assembly,

Noting that there are as many as 85 million uncleared land-mines throughout
the world, particularly in rural areas,

Expressing deep concern that such mines kill or maim hundreds of people
each week, mostly unarmed civilians, obstruct economic development and have
other severe consequences, which include inhibiting the repatriation of refugees
and the return of internally displaced persons,

Recalling with satisfaction its resolution 48/7 of 19 October 1993, by
which it, inter alia, requested the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive
report on the problems caused by mines and other unexploded devices,

Convinced that a moratorium by States exporting anti-personnel land-mines
that pose grave dangers to civilian populations would reduce substantially the
human and economic costs resulting from the use of such devices and would
complement the aforementioned initiative,

Noting with satisfaction that several States have already declared
moratoriums on the export, transfer or purchase of anti-personnel land-mines and
related devices,

1. Calls upon States to agree to a moratorium on the export of
anti-personnel land-mines that pose grave dangers to civilian populations;

2. Urges States to implement such a moratorium;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report concerning progress
on this initiative, including possible recommendations regarding further
appropriate measures to limit the export of anti-personnel land-mines, and to
submit it to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session under the item
entitled "General and complete disarmament".

/...



A/48/676
English
Page 34

L

Prohibition of the production of fissile material for
nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices

The General Assembly,

Welcoming the significant progress in reducing nuclear-weapon arsenals as
evidenced by the substantive bilateral agreements between the Russian Federation
and the United States of America and their respective unilateral undertakings
regarding the disposition of fissile material,

Welcoming also the initiative of the United States of America concerning a
multilateral, internationally and effectively verifiable treaty on the
prohibition of the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other
nuclear explosive devices,

Welcoming further the decision taken by the Conference on Disarmament on
10 August 1993 to give its Ad Hoc Committee on a Nuclear Test Ban a mandate to
negotiate a universal and internationally and effectively verifiable
comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, 31/ and fully endorsing the contents
of that decision,

Convinced that a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and
effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for
nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices would be a significant
contribution to nuclear non-proliferation in all its aspects,

1. Recommends the negotiation in the most appropriate international forum
of a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively
verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons
or other nuclear explosive devices;

2. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to provide assistance
for examination of verification arrangements for such a treaty as required;

3. Calls upon all States to demonstrate their commitment to the
objectives of a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and
effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for
nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session an item entitled "Prohibition of the production of fissile material for
nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices".

-----

31/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27), para. 31 (para. 2 of the quoted text).


