





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/652
6 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 116

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 e OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Anuson CHINVANNO (Thailand)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-eighth session the item entitled "Information from Non-Self-Governing
Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United
Nations". At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 116, 117, 118 and 12, and 119, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would
be considered separately. The general debate took place at the 4th to
6th meetings, on 14, 15 and 18 October.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 116 at its 2nd to 6th and
12th meetings, on 6, 12, 14, 15, 18 and 29 October (see A/C.4/48/SR.2-6 and 12).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

4. At the 2nd meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he
gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1993
and drew attention to chapter VIII of the report of that Committee relating to

93-68813 (E) 071293 /...



A/48/652
English
Page 2

item 116 (A/48/23 (Part IV)) 1/ containing, inter alia, the related draft
resolution submitted by the Special Committee for the consideration of the
Fourth Committee.

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
relating to the item (A/48/436).

6. At its 12th meeting, on 29 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 10 of chapter VIII of the report of the
Special Committee (A/48/23 (Part IV)) by a recorded vote of 122 to none, with
3 abstentions (see para. 7). 2/ The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

1/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/48/23).

2/ The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland made a statement in explanation of vote.

3/ Subsequently, the delegations of Armenia, Rwanda, the Syrian Arab
Republic and Zambia indicated that they had intended to vote in favour of the
draft resolution.

/...



A/48/652
English
Page 3

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolution:

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations 4/ and the action taken by the Special Committee
in respect of that information,

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General on this item, 5/

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee to study the information transmitted to the
Secretary-General in accordance with Article 73 e of the Charter of the United
Nations and to take such information fully into account in examining the
situation with regard to the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Recalling also its resolution 47/14 of 16 November 1992, in which it
requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted
to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Stressing the importance of timely transmission by the administering Powers
of adequate information under Article 73 e of the Charter, in particular in
relation to the preparation by the Secretariat of the working papers on the
Territories concerned,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations; 4/

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of self-
government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power

4/ A/48/23 (Part IV), chap. VIII.

5/ A/48/436.

/...



A/48/652
English
Page 4

concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 e of the
Charter with respect to that Territory;

3. Requests the administering Powers concerned to transmit or continue to
transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 e of
the Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and
constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum
period of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in
those Territories;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the
preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concerned;

5. Requests the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance
with established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly at its
forty-ninth session.

-----


