





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/654
2 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda items 118 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES
BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND THE INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Anuson CHINVANNO (Thailand)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-eighth session the following items:

"118. Implementation of the declaration on the granting of independence to
colonial countries and peoples by the specialized agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations.

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council"

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Special Political
and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) agenda item 118, together with
chapter V (sect. A) of the report of the Economic and Social Council, 1/ which
relates to the item.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 116, 117, 118 and 12, and 119, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would
be considered separately. The general debate took place at the 4th to
6th meetings between 14 and 18 October.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/48/3/Rev.1).

93-67804 (E) 031293 /...



A/48/654
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

3. The Fourth Committee considered items 118 and 12 at its 2nd to 6th, 11th
and 12th meetings, between 6 and 29 October (see A/C.4/47/SR.2-6, 11 and 12).

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee
during 1993 and drew attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee
relating to item 118 (A/48/23 (Part IV)) 2/ containing, inter alia, the related
draft resolution submitted by the Special Committee for the consideration of the
Fourth Committee. The Rapporteur also stated that, in view of the recent
developments concerning South Africa, members of the Special Committee had been
holding consultations with a view to amending that Committee’s recommendations
to the General Assembly on agenda item 118.

5. During its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee had before it
the report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraph 22 of
General Assembly resolution 47/16 of 16 November 1992 (A/48/224 and Corr.1 and
Add.1-3).

6. At its 3rd meeting, on 12 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request
for hearing to Mr. Carlyle Corbin of the Working Group of Non-Independent
Caribbean Countries of the Caribbean Development and Cooperation Committee
(A/C.4/48/3). At the 4th meeting, on 14 October, Mr. Corbin made a statement
(see A/C.4/48/SR.4).

7. At the 11th meeting, on 28 October, the Chairman of the Fourth Committee
drew attention to document A/C.4/48/L.13 containing amendments submitted by
Papua New Guinea, on behalf of the States members of the Special Committee, to
the draft resolution contained in document A/48/23 (Part IV), chapter VII,
paragraph 15.

8. At the 12th meeting, on 29 October, the Chairman of the Special Committee
introduced the amendments as follows:

A/C.4/48/L.13 (amendments to A/48/23 (Part IV), chap. VII, para. 15)

(a) The sixth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Recognizing the responsibility of the United Nations and the
international community, as envisaged in the Declaration, to help the South
African people in their legitimate struggle for the total elimination of
apartheid through peaceful means,"

would be deleted;

2/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/48/23).

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 3

(b) In new seventh preambular paragraph (former eighth preambular
paragraph), the phrase "and expressing the hope that these elections will lead
to the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa," would
be added at the end of the paragraph;

(c) The former tenth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Recognizing that permanent peace and stability in South Africa can
only be achieved when the system of apartheid in that country has been
eradicated and South Africa has been transformed into a united, democratic
and non-racial country, and reiterating therefore that all the necessary
measures should be adopted at the present time to bring a speedy end to the
apartheid system in the interest of all the people of the world,"

would be deleted;

(d) In new sixteenth preambular paragraph (former eighteenth preambular
paragraph), the phrase "have been committed" would be replaced by "were
committed";

(e) The former twenty-fourth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Noting with appreciation the continued assistance that has been
extended to refugees from South Africa through the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,"

would be deleted;

(f) In operative paragraph 15, the phrase "returning refugees and exiles
and released political prisoners" would be deleted;

(g) Operative paragraph 16, which read:

"16. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system to adhere to the Programme of Action contained in the
Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern
Africa, in particular with regard to increased support for the opponents of
apartheid, and the use of concerted and effective measures aimed at
applying pressure to ensure a speedy end to apartheid;"

would be replaced by:

"16. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system to increase their support for the forces working for
the transformation of South Africa into a united, democratic and non-racial
society, on the basis of the pertinent provisions of the Programme of
Action contained in the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa;";

(h) Operative paragraph 17, which read:

"17. Stresses, in the context of the Declaration on Apartheid and its
Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa, the need for the specialized

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 4

agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to render all
possible assistance to the front-line and neighbouring States to enable
them to rebuild their economies, which have been adversely affected by acts
of aggression and destabilization by South Africa;"

would be replaced by:

"17. Appeals to the specialized agencies and other organizations of
the United Nations system to render all possible assistance to the front-
line and neighbouring States to enable them to rebuild their economies,
which were adversely affected by acts of aggression and destabilization by
South Africa;";

(i) Operative paragraph 18, which read:

"18. Urges all States, especially those that have economic, financial
or other links to South Africa, to adhere fully to the Programme of Action
contained in the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences
in Southern Africa until the establishment of a united, democratic and
non-racial South Africa;"

would be deleted;

(j) Former operative paragraphs 19 to 24 would be renumbered as operative
paragraphs 18 to 23.

9. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted the amendments contained
in document A/C.4/48/L.13 (see para. 8) without a vote.

10. Also at the 12th meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft resolution
contained in paragraph 15 of chapter VII of the report of the Special Committee
(A/48/23 (Part IV)), as amended, by a recorded vote of 90 to 6, with
33 abstentions (see para. 11). 3/ The voting was as follows: 4/

3/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Argentina, Belgium (on behalf of the European Community and its member States),
Italy, New Zealand, Panama and the Russian Federation.

4/ The delegation of Rwanda informed the Committee that, had it been
present at the time of the vote, it would have voted in favour.

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 5

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Armenia, France, Netherlands, Russian Federation, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

11. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
by the specialized agencies and the international
institutions associated with the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations",

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 6

Having considered the reports submitted on the item by the Secretary-
General 5/ and by the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 6/

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, 7/

Recalling General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,
containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries
and Peoples, and resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, as well as all other
resolutions adopted by the Assembly on this subject, including, in particular,
resolution 46/181 of 19 December 1991, endorsing the Plan of Action for the
International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, 8/

Recalling also General Assembly resolution S-16/1 of 14 December 1989, the
annex to which contains the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity, the South Pacific Forum and the Caribbean
Community,

Welcoming the announcement that the first democratic elections will be held
in South Africa on 27 April 1994 and expressing the hope that these elections
will lead to the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial South
Africa,

Concerned that the objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
have not been fully achieved,

Noting that the large majority of the remaining Non-Self-Governing
Territories are small island Territories,

Recalling its resolution 43/189 of 20 December 1988, concerning specific
measures in favour of island developing countries,

5/ A/48/224 and Corr. 1 and Add.1-3.

6/ A/AC.109/L.1805.

7/ A/48/23 (Part IV), chap. VII.

8/ See A/46/634/Rev.1 of 13 December 1991.

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 7

Bearing in mind the conclusions and recommendations of the Meeting of
Governmental Experts of Island Developing Countries and Donor Countries and
Organizations, held in New York from 25 to 29 June 1990, 9/

Recalling relevant resolutions of the Caribbean Development and Cooperation
Committee concerning the access of Non-Self-Governing Territories to programmes
of the United Nations system,

Noting the assistance extended thus far to Non-Self-Governing Territories
by certain specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, and considering
that such assistance should be expanded further, commensurate with the pressing
needs of the peoples concerned for external assistance,

Stressing that, because the development options of small island
Non-Self-Governing Territories are limited, there are special challenges to
planning for and implementing sustainable development and that those Territories
will be constrained in meeting the challenges without the cooperation and
assistance of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system,

Stressing the importance of securing necessary resources for funding
expanded assistance programmes for the peoples concerned and the need to enlist
the support of all major funding institutions within the United Nations system
in that regard,

Noting with concern the continuing effects of the acts of aggression and
destabilization that were committed by South Africa against neighbouring
independent African States,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to take all the necessary measures,
within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full
implementation, without further delay, of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)
and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations, particularly those
relating to the extension of assistance to the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing
Territories,

Expressing its appreciation to the Organization of African Unity, the South
Pacific Forum and the Caribbean Community, as well as other regional
organizations, for the continued cooperation and assistance they have extended
to the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system
in this regard,

Expressing its conviction that closer contacts and consultations between
and among the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system and regional organizations help to facilitate the effective formulation
of assistance programmes to the peoples concerned,

9/ A/CONF.147/5-TD/B/AC.46/4, chap. II.

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 8

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the
activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions
relating to decolonization,

Bearing in mind the extremely fragile economies of the Non-Self-Governing
small island Territories and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such as
hurricanes, cyclones and sea level rise, and recalling relevant General Assembly
resolutions, in particular resolution 47/189 of 22 December 1992,

Recalling its resolution 47/22 of 25 November 1992 on cooperation and
coordination of the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations in their assistance to Non-Self-Governing
Territories,

1. Takes note of the report of the Chairman of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples on his consultations
with the President of the Economic and Social Council 6/ and endorses the
observations and suggestions arising therefrom; 10/

2. Recommends that all States should intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to
ensure the full and effective implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and other relevant resolutions
of the United Nations;

3. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organizations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute to the
full implementation, without further delay, of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and all other relevant General
Assembly resolutions;

4. Reaffirms also that the recognition by the General Assembly, the
Security Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the
aspiration of the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories to exercise their
right to self-determination and independence entails, as a corollary, the
extension of all necessary moral and material assistance to those peoples;

5. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system that have continued to cooperate with
the United Nations and the regional and subregional organizations in the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations, and urges all the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations system to accelerate the full and
speedy implementation of the relevant provisions of those resolutions;

10/ E/1993/98.

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 9

6. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system, as well as international and regional organizations, to
examine and review conditions in each Territory so as to take appropriate
measures to accelerate progress in the economic and social sectors of the
Territories;

7. Requests the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations, as well as regional organizations, to
strengthen existing measures of support and formulate additional appropriate
programmes of assistance to the remaining Trust and Non-Self-Governing
Territories, within the framework of their respective mandates, in order to
accelerate progress in the economic and social sectors of those Territories;

8. Further requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of
the United Nations system, in formulating their assistance programmes, to take
due account of the conclusions and recommendations, entitled "Challenges and
opportunities: a strategic framework", of the Meeting of Governmental Experts
of Island Developing Countries and Donor Countries and Organizations, held in
New York in June 1990; 9/

9. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system to formulate programmes that will support the sustainable
development of small island Non-Self-Governing Territories and adopt measures
that will enable those Territories to cope effectively, creatively and
sustainably with environmental changes and to mitigate impacts and reduce the
threats posed to marine and coastal resources;

10. Urges the executive heads of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to formulate, with the active
cooperation of the regional organizations concerned, concrete proposals for the
full implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and to
submit the proposals as a matter of priority to their governing and legislative
organs;

11. Recommends that the executive heads of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund should draw the attention of their governing bodies
to the present resolution and consider introducing flexible procedures to
prepare specific programmes for the peoples of the Trust and Non-Self-Governing
Territories;

12. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system that have not already done so to include in the agenda of the
regular meetings of their governing bodies a separate item on the progress they
have made in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and
other relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

13. Welcomes the continued initiative exercised by the United Nations
Development Programme in maintaining close liaison among the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system and in
coordinating the activities of the agencies in extending effective assistance to
the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories, and calls upon the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, as a matter of
urgency, to contribute generously to the relief, rehabilitation and

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 10

reconstruction efforts in those Non-Self-Governing Territories affected by
natural disasters;

14. Urges the administering Powers concerned to facilitate the
participation of the representatives of the Governments of Trust and
Non-Self-Governing Territories in the relevant meetings and conferences of the
agencies and organizations so that the Territories may draw the maximum benefits
from the related activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations
of the United Nations system;

15. Appeals to the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system to increase humanitarian and legal assistance to the
victims of apartheid;

16. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system to increase their support for the forces working for the
transformation of South Africa into a united, democratic and non-racial society,
on the basis of the pertinent provisions of the Programme of Action contained in
the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern
Africa;

17. Appeals to the specialized agencies and of the organizations of the
United Nations system to render all possible assistance to the front-line and
neighbouring States to enable them to rebuild their economies, which were
adversely affected by acts of aggression and destabilization by South Africa;

18. Recommends that all Governments should intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system of
which they are members to ensure the full and effective implementation of
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the
United Nations and, in that connection, should accord priority to the question
of providing assistance on an emergency basis to the peoples of the Trust and
Non-Self-Governing Territories;

19. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the
assistance of those agencies and organizations, a report on the action taken in
implementation of the relevant resolutions, including the present resolution,
since the circulation of his previous report;

20. Commends the Economic and Social Council for its debate and resolution
on this issue and requests it to continue to consider, in consultation with the
Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
appropriate measures for coordination of the policies and activities of the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in
implementing the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly;

21. Requests the specialized agencies to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the present resolution;

/...



A/48/654
English
Page 11

22. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to
the governing bodies of the appropriate specialized agencies and international
institutions associated with the United Nations so that those bodies take the
necessary measures to implement the resolution, and also requests the Secretary-
General to report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session on the
implementation of the present resolution;

23. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question and
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session.

-----


