





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/674
7 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 69

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS TO
ASSURE NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON STATES AGAINST THE USE OR

THREAT OF USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapons States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons" was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-eighth session of
the General Assembly in accordance with its resolution 47/50 of 9 December 1992.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item on its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October 1993, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on those items
took place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and 28 October (see
A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place
at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November (see A/C.1/48/SR.18-
23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place at the 24th to 30th
meetings on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November (see A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 69, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

93-69040 (E) 091293 /...



A/48/674
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Letter dated 12 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/48/3).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/48/L.37

5. At the 27th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of Bangladesh, Colombia, Costa Rica, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Madagascar, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Viet Nam, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons" (A/C.1/48/L.37), which was later also sponsored by the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Panama and the Sudan.

6. At its 27th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.37 by a recorded vote of 142 to none, with 3 abstentions (see
para. 7). The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27).

2/ Subsequently, the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/674
English
Page 3

Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Conclusion of effective international arrangements
to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use

or threat of use of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States of
the world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples,

Convinced that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and to
the survival of civilization,

Welcoming the progress achieved in recent years in both nuclear and
conventional disarmament,

Noting that, despite recent progress in the field of nuclear disarmament,
further efforts are necessary towards the achievement of the goal of general and
complete disarmament under effective international control,

Convinced that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

Determined to abide strictly by the relevant provisions of the Charter of
the United Nations on the non-use of force or threat of force,

Recognizing that the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of
non-nuclear-weapon States need to be safeguarded against the use or threat of
use of force, including the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal
basis, it is imperative for the international community to develop effective
measures and arrangements to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Recognizing that effective measures and arrangements to assure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
can contribute positively to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

/...



A/48/674
English
Page 4

Bearing in mind paragraph 59 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 3/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament, in which it urged the nuclear-weapon States to pursue efforts to
conclude, as appropriate, effective arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and desirous of
promoting the implementation of the relevant provisions of the Final Document,

Recalling the relevant parts of the special report of the Committee on
Disarmament, 4/ submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special
session, 5/ the second special session devoted to disarmament, and of the
special report of the Conference on Disarmament submitted to the Assembly at its
fifteenth special session, 6/ the third special session devoted to
disarmament, as well as of the report of the Conference on its 1992
session, 7/

Recalling also paragraph 12 of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second
Disarmament Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 35/46 of
3 December 1980, which states, inter alia, that all efforts should be exerted by
the Committee on Disarmament urgently to negotiate with a view to reaching
agreement on effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Noting the in-depth negotiations undertaken in the Conference on
Disarmament and its Ad Hoc Committee on Effective International Arrangements to
Assure Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use of Nuclear
Weapons, with a view to reaching agreement on this item,

Taking note of the proposals submitted under this item in the Conference on
Disarmament, including the drafts of an international convention,

Taking note also of the decision of the Tenth Conference of Heads of State
or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to
6 September 1992, 8/ as well as the relevant recommendations of the

3/ Resolution S-10/2.

4/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Supplement No. 2 (A/S-12/2), sect. III.C.

6/ Ibid., Fifteenth Special Session, Supplement No. 2 (A/S-15/2),
sect. III.F.

7/ Ibid., Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27),
sect. III.F.

8/ See A/47/675-S/24816, annex; see Official Records of the Security
Council, Forty-seventh Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1992,
document S/24816.

/...



A/48/674
English
Page 5

Organization of the Islamic Conference reiterated in the Final Communiqué of the
Twentieth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Istanbul from 4 to
8 August 1991, 9/ calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to reach an
urgent agreement on an international convention to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Taking note further of the unilateral declarations made by all nuclear-
weapons States on their policies of non-use or non-threat of use of nuclear
weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States,

Noting the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
as well as the difficulties pointed out in evolving a common approach acceptable
to all,

Noting also the greater willingness to overcome the difficulties
encountered in previous years,

Recalling its relevant resolutions adopted in previous years, in particular
resolutions 45/54 of 4 December 1990, 46/32 of 6 December 1991 and 47/50 of
9 December 1992,

1. Reaffirms the urgent need to reach an early agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons;

2. Notes with satisfaction that in the Conference on Disarmament there is
no objection, in principle, to the idea of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
although the difficulties as regards evolving a common approach acceptable to
all have also been pointed out;

3. Appeals to all States, especially the nuclear-weapon States, to work
actively towards an early agreement on a common approach and, in particular, on
a common formula that could be included in an international instrument of a
legally binding character;

4. Recommends that further intensive efforts should be devoted to the
search for such a common approach or common formula and that the various
alternative approaches, including, in particular, those considered in the
Conference on Disarmament, should be further explored in order to overcome the
difficulties;

5. Recommends also that the Conference on Disarmament should actively
continue intensive negotiations with a view to reaching early agreement and
concluding effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon

9/ See A/46/486-S/23055, annex I; see Official Records of the Security
Council, Forty-sixth Year, Supplement for July, August and September 1991,
document S/23055.

/...



A/48/674
English
Page 6

States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, taking into account
the widespread support for the conclusion of an international convention and
giving consideration to any other proposals designed to secure the same
objective;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons".

-----


