





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/685
10 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 80

MAINTENANCE OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Maintenance of international security" was included in
the provisional agenda of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly in
accordance with its resolution 47/60 B of 9 December 1992.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October 1993, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on those items
took place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and 28 October (see
A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place
at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.18-23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place at
the 24th to 30th meetings, on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 80, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on maintenance of international
security (A/48/390);

(b) Letter dated 25 February 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Equatorial Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/94);

93-69901 (E) 131293 /...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 13 April 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/138-S/25596);

(d) Letter dated 27 July 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Thailand to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the joint communiqué of the twenty-sixth Ministerial Meeting of the Association
of South-East Asian Nations (A/48/294-S/26247);

(e) Letter dated 10 August 1993 from the representatives of the Permanent
Missions of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/304-S/26290);

(f) Letter dated 18 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Equatorial Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/330);

(g) Letter dated 25 August 1993 from the representatives of Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting a statement adopted at
the joint meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Ministers for Defence
of the States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, held in Moscow
on 24 August 1993 (A/48/347-S/26357);

(h) Letter dated 30 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Equatorial Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/357);

(i) Letter dated 16 September 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
the Republic of Moldova to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/48/404-S/26452);

(j) Letter dated 6 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/48/480-S/26547);

(k) Letter dated 12 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of
Austria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the final documents of the Meeting of Heads of State and Government of the
member States of the Council of Europe, held at Vienna on 8 and 9 October 1993
(A/48/496).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.32

5. At the 24th meeting, on 11 November, the representative of the Russian
Federation, on behalf of Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Tajikistan, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and

/...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 3

Northern Ireland and United States of America, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Maintenance of international security" (A/C.1/48/L.32), which was
later also sponsored by Croatia, Honduras, Japan, Malta, New Zealand and Panama.

6. At its 30th meeting, on 19 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.32 by a recorded vote of 67 to none, with 75 abstentions (see
para. 12, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa
Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Samoa, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nicaragua, Niger, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Nigeria indicated that it had intended
to abstain.

/...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 4

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.26 and Rev.1-3

7. At the 24th meeting, on 11 November, the representative of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Developments of good-neighbourly relations among Balkan States"
(A/C.1/48/L.26). The text of the draft resolution was as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Affirming its determination that all nations should live together in
peace with one another as good neighbours,

"Emphasizing the urgency of the Balkans becoming a region of peace,
security, stability and good-neighbourliness, thus contributing to the
maintenance of international peace and security and so enhancing the
prospects for sustained development and prosperity for its peoples,

"Noting the desire of the Balkan States to develop good-neighbourly
relations among themselves and friendly relations among nations in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

"1. Calls upon all Balkan States to endeavour to promote
good-neighbourly relations and continually to undertake unilateral and
joint confidence-building measures as appropriate;

"2. Emphasizes the importance for all Balkan States to promote mutual
cooperation, particularly in the following fields: trade and other forms
of economic cooperation; transport and telecommunications; protection of
the environment; advancement of democratic processes; promotion of human
rights; and development of cultural and sport relations;

"3. Stresses that early integration of the Balkan States into the
European integration arrangements, and particularly the improvement of
their relations with the European Economic Community, will favourably
influence the political and economic situation in the region, as well as
the good-neighbourly relations among Balkan States;

"4. Requests that the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the
competent organs of the United Nations, especially with the Economic
Commission for Europe, as well as with all Balkan States, to prepare a
report on the development of good-neighbourly relations in the Balkans and
to propose measures and other preventive activities aimed at the creation
of a stable zone of peace and cooperation in the Balkans by the year 2000;

"5. Decides to consider the report of the Secretary-General at its
fiftieth session."

8. At the 25th meeting, on 12 November, the representative of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia introduced a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/48/L.26/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

/...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 5

(a) The third preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Noting the desire of the Balkan States to develop good-neighbourly
relations among themselves and friendly relations with all nations in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations".

(b) Operative paragraph 1 was revised to read:

"1. Calls upon all Balkan States to endeavour to promote
good-neighbourly relations and continually to undertake unilateral and
joint activities, particularly confidence-building measures as
appropriate".

(c) Operative paragraph 3 was revised to read:

"3. Stresses that closer engagement of the Balkan States in
cooperation arrangements on the European continent will favourably
influence the political and economic situation in the region, as well as
the good-neighbourly relations among Balkan States".

(d) Operative paragraph 4 was revised to read:

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Member
States, particularly those from the Balkan region, of international
organizations, as well as of competent organs of the United Nations, on the
development of good-neighbourly relations in the region and on measures and
preventive activities aimed at the creation of a stable zone of peace and
cooperation in the Balkans by the year 2000".

(e) Operative paragraph 5 was revised to read:

"5. Decides to consider the report of the Secretary-General on the
subject at its fiftieth regular session".

9. At its 26th meeting, on 15 November, the sponsor submitted a second revised
draft resolution (A/C.1/48/L.26/Rev.2), which contained the following changes:

(a) A new first preambular paragraph was added, to read:

"Recalling its resolutions 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 and 46/62 of
9 December 1991".

(b) The beginning of the second preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Emphasizing the urgency of the Balkans consolidating as a region of
peace".

(c) Operative paragraph 1 was revised to read:

"1. Calls upon all Balkan States to endeavour to promote
good-neighbourly relations and continually to undertake unilateral and
joint activities, particularly confidence-building measures as appropriate,

/...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 6

including those within the framework of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe";

(d) Operative paragraph 2 was revised to read:

"2. Emphasizes the importance for all Balkan States to promote mutual
cooperation in all fields and inter alia, in: trade and other forms of
economic cooperation; transport and telecommunications; protection of the
environment; advancement of democratic processes; promotion of human rights
and development of cultural and sport relations".

(e) Operative paragraph 4 was revised to read:

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Member
States, particularly those from the Balkan region, of international
organizations, as well as of competent organs of the United Nations, on the
development of good-neighbourly relations in the region and on measures and
preventive activities aimed at creation of a stable zone of peace and
cooperation in the Balkans by the year 2000".

10. On 17 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/48/L.26/Rev.3), which contained the following changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was revised to read:

"1. Calls upon all Balkan States to endeavour to promote
good-neighbourly relations and continually to undertake unilateral and
joint activities, particularly confidence-building measures as appropriate,
in particular within the framework of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe".

(b) Operative paragraph 3 was revised to read:

"3. Stresses that closer engagement of Balkan States in cooperation
arrangements on the European continent will favourably influence the
political and economic situation in the region, as well as the
good-neighbourly relations among Balkan States".

11. At its 29th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.26/Rev.3 without a vote (see para. 12, draft resolution B).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

12. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 7

A

Maintenance of international security

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 47/60 B of 9 December 1992 on maintenance of
international security,

Recalling also its resolution 47/54 G of 8 April 1993, in which it,
inter alia, decided that the First Committee of the General Assembly, in
pursuing its efforts to respond to the new realities of international security,
should continue to deal with questions of disarmament and related international
security issues,

Welcoming the relaxation of global tensions and the emergence of a new
spirit in relations among nations as a result of the end of the cold war and of
bipolar confrontation,

Expressing its serious concern over new threats to international peace and
security, the persistence of tensions in some regions and the emergence of new
conflicts,

Noting with appreciation the ideas and proposals of the Secretary-General
aimed at the enhancement of the potential role of the United Nations in the area
of preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-
building, as well as in multilateral disarmament, contained in his reports
entitled "An Agenda for Peace" 2/ and "New dimensions of arms regulation and
disarmament in the post-cold war era", 3/

Reaffirming the importance of multilateral mechanisms in the areas of
disarmament and international peace and security,

Bearing in mind the crucial contribution that progress in the field of
disarmament, arms control, non-proliferation, transparency in arms transfers and
confidence-building measures can make to the maintenance of international peace
and security,

Emphasizing that international peace and security must be seen in an
integrated manner and that the efforts of the international community to build
peace, justice, stability and security must encompass not only military matters,
but also relevant political, economic, social, humanitarian, environmental and
developmental aspects,

Noting with satisfaction the progress achieved at the Conference on
Disarmament towards negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty,

2/ A/47/277-S/24111; see Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-
seventh Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1992, document S/24111.

3/ A/C.1/47/7.

/...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 8

Stressing the importance of global and regional approaches to disarmament,
which should be pursued to promote regional and international peace and
security,

Reaffirming the need to strengthen the mechanism for collective security
provided for in the Charter of the United Nations,

Affirming its conviction that all Member States should endorse and support
the role given by the Charter to the Security Council in the maintenance of
international peace and security,

1. Reaffirms that, with the end of the cold war and of bipolar
confrontation, the United Nations faces new tasks in the area of maintaining
international peace and security;

2. Recognizes the need for effective, dynamic and flexible measures, in
accordance with the Charter, to prevent and remove threats to peace and to
suppress acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace, and in particular
for measures to build, maintain or restore international peace and security;

3. Emphasizes its commitment to preventive diplomacy and the need to
develop appropriate political mechanisms for the early solution of disputes and
for the timely and peaceful resolution of any situation that might impair
friendly relations among States, so as to preserve peace and strengthen
international security;

4. Stresses the need for the full implementation of Security Council
resolutions;

5. Recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to address
situations that might lead to international friction or dispute, in close
cooperation and coordination with the Security Council and the Secretary-General
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations;

6. Stresses the great importance of the role of regional arrangements and
organizations and recognizes the need to coordinate their efforts with those of
the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security;

7. Urges all States to strive for sustainable progress in the field of
disarmament, arms control, non-proliferation, transparency in arms transfers and
confidence-building measures, which can provide a crucial contribution to the
maintenance of international peace and security;

8. Recognizes the importance of humanitarian concerns in conflict
situations and welcomes the increasing role of the United Nations system in
providing humanitarian assistance;

9. Decides to continue consideration of the question of maintenance of
international security and invites Member States to provide their views on
further consideration of this question;

10. Also decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Maintenance of international security".

/...



A/C.2/48/L.61
English
Page 9

B

Developments of good-neighbourly relations among Balkan States

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 and 46/62 of
9 December 1991,

Affirming its determination that all nations should live together in peace
with one another as good neighbours,

Emphasizing the urgency of the consolidation of the Balkans as a region of
peace, security, stability and good-neighbourliness, thus contributing to the
maintenance of international peace and security and so enhancing the prospects
for sustained development and prosperity for its peoples,

Noting the desire of the Balkan States to develop good-neighbourly
relations among themselves and friendly relations with all nations in accordance
with the Charter of the United Nations,

1. Calls upon all Balkan States to endeavour to promote good-neighbourly
relations and continually to undertake unilateral and joint activities,
particularly confidence-building measures as appropriate, in particular within
the framework of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe;

2. Emphasizes the importance for all Balkan States to promote mutual
cooperation in all fields and, inter alia, in trade and other forms of economic
cooperation, transport and telecommunications, protection of the environment,
advancement of democratic processes, promotion of human rights and development
of cultural and sport relations;

3. Stresses that closer engagement of Balkan States in cooperation
arrangements on the European continent will favourably influence the political
and economic situation in the region, as well as the good-neighbourly relations
among Balkan States;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Member States,
particularly those from the Balkan region, of international organizations, as
well as of competent organs of the United Nations, on the development of
good-neighbourly relations in the region and on measures and preventive
activities aimed at creation of a stable zone of peace and cooperation in the
Balkans by the year 2000;

5. Decides to consider the report of the Secretary-General on the subject
at its fiftieth regular session.

-----


