





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/717/Add.2
17 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 91 (a)

DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC COOPERATION:
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT

Report of the Second Committee (Part III)*

Rapporteur: Ms. Irene FREUDENSCHUSS-REICHL (Austria)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on agenda item 91 (see
A/48/717, para. 2). Action to be taken on the item was further considered at
the 39th and 47th meetings, on 23 November and 10 December. An account of the
Committee’s consideration of the item is contained in the relevant summary
records (A/C.2/48/SR.39 and 47).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.14 and Rev.1

2. On 12 November, the Chairman of the Committee submitted a draft resolution
entitled "International code of conduct on the transfer of technology"
(A/C.2/48/L.14), which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 47/182 of 22 December 1992, on an
international code of conduct on the transfer of technology,

* The report of the Committee on this agenda item will be issued in
several parts, under the symbol A/C.2/48/717 and addenda.

93-71220 (E) 181293 /...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 2

"1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development on negotiations on an
international code of conduct on the transfer of technology: consultations
carried out in 1993; 1/

"2. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, in line with the relevant provisions of the
Cartagena Commitment, 2/ to undertake further consultations with
Governments on an international code of conduct on the transfer of
technology and to report to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session on
the outcome of these consultations."

3. At the 47th meeting, on 10 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution submitted by the Chairman (A/C.2/48/L.14/Rev.1).

4. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.2/48/L.14/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 23, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.21

5. At the 39th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Colombia, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group
of 77, and China, subsequently joined by Ukraine, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Economic measures as a means of political and economic coercion
against developing countries" (A/C.2/48/L.21).

6. At the 47th meeting, on 10 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Leandro Arellano Resendiz (Mexico), informed the Committee of the results of
the informal consultations held on the draft resolution.

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.21
by a recorded vote of 85 to 33, with 14 abstentions (see para. 23, draft
resolution II). The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico,

1/ A/48/533, annex.

2/ TD/364, part one, sect. A.

3/ Subsequently, the delegation of Mauritania indicated that had it been
present during the vote, it would have voted in favour.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 3

Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova,
Slovakia, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Croatia, Cyprus,
Greece, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Malta, Panama, Republic of
Korea, Russian Federation, Spain.

8. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of the United States of America (see A/C.2/48/SR.47).

C. Draft resolutions A/C.2/48/L.22 and L.81

9. At the 39th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Zambia, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Burundi, the Central African
Republic, Chad, Colombia, Ethiopia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Malawi, Mongolia, Nepal, Niger, Paraguay, Rwanda, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of
land-locked developing countries" (A/C.2/48/L.22), which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling the provisions of its resolutions 44/214 of
22 December 1989, 46/212 of 20 December 1991 and all other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations relating to the particular needs and
problems of land-locked developing countries,

"Recognizing that the lack of territorial access to the sea,
aggravated by remoteness and isolation from world markets, and prohibitive
transit costs and risks impose serious constraints on the overall
socio-economic development efforts of the land-locked developing countries,

"Recognizing also that fifteen of the land-locked developing countries
are also classified by the United Nations as least developed countries and
that their geographical situation is an added constraint on their overall
ability to cope with the challenges of development,

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 4

"Recognizing further that most transit countries are themselves
developing countries facing serious economic problems, including the lack
of adequate infrastructure in the transport sector,

"Recalling that measures to deal with the transit problems of
land-locked developing countries require closer and even more effective
cooperation and collaboration between those countries and their transit
neighbours,

"Recalling the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,
adopted on 10 December 1982, 4/

"Recognizing the important role played by bilateral cooperative
arrangements and regional and subregional cooperation and integration in
comprehensively solving the transit problems of the land-locked developing
countries and improving the transit-transport systems in land-locked and
transit developing countries,

"Noting the importance of strengthening the existing international
support measures with a view to further addressing the problems of
land-locked developing countries,

"1. Reaffirms the right of access of land-locked countries to and
from the sea and freedom of transit through the territory of transit States
by all means of transport, in accordance with international law;

"2. Also reaffirms that transit developing countries, in the exercise
of their full sovereignty over their territory, have the right to take all
measures necessary to ensure that the rights and facilities provided for
land-locked developing countries should in no way infringe upon their
legitimate interests;

"3. Calls upon both the land-locked developing countries and their
transit neighbours, within the spirit of South-South cooperation, including
bilateral cooperation, to implement measures to strengthen further their
cooperative and collaborative efforts in dealing with their transit
problems;

"4. Appeals once again to all States, international organizations and
financial institutions to implement, as a matter of urgency and priority,
the specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of
land-locked developing countries envisaged in the previous resolutions
adopted by the General Assembly and the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development, in the International Development Strategy for the Fourth
United Nations Development Decade, 5/ in the Declaration on International

4/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.

5/ Resolution 45/199, annex.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 5

Economic Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth
and Development of the Developing Countries, adopted at the eighteenth
special session of the General Assembly and contained in the annex to its
resolution S-18/3 of 1 May 1990, and in the relevant provisions of the
Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s; 6/

"5. Invites the land-locked developing countries and their transit
neighbours to intensify further their cooperative arrangements for the
development of transit infrastructures, institutions and services to
facilitate a more rapid movement of goods in transit with financial and
technical assistance from donors and financial agencies;

"6. Emphasizes that assistance for the improvement of
transport-transit facilities and services should be integrated into the
overall economic development strategies of the land-locked and transit
developing countries and that donor assistance should consequently take
into account the requirements for long-term restructuring of the economies
of the land-locked developing countries;

"7. Urges donor countries and multilateral financial and development
institutions to provide land-locked and transit developing countries with
appropriate financial and technical assistance in the form of grants or
concessional loans for the construction, maintenance and improvement of
their transport, storage and other transit-related facilities, including
alternative routes and improved communications;

"8. Requests the United Nations Development Programme to further
promote, as appropriate, subregional, regional and interregional projects
and programmes and to expand its support in the transport and
communications sectors to the land-locked and transit developing countries
and its technical cooperation for development geared towards promoting
national and collective self-reliance among them;

"9. Endorses the report of the Meeting of Governmental Experts from
Land-locked and Transit Developing Countries and Representatives of Donor
Countries and Financial and Development Institutions 7/ and the
conclusions and recommendations contained therein;

"10. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development to organize, in close collaboration with the
regional commissions, a symposium, to be convened in 1994, for land-locked
and transit developing countries and representatives of donor countries and
financial and development institutions to address specific regional
problems in implementing the recommendations of the meeting mentioned in
paragraph 9 above;

6/ See Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, Paris, 3-14 September 1990 (A/CONF.147/18), part one.

7/ TD/B/40(1)2-TD/B/LDC/AC.14.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 6

"11. Also requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development to convene in 1995 another meeting of
governmental experts from land-locked and transit developing countries and
representatives of donor countries and financial and development
institutions to review progress in the development of the transit systems
in the land-locked and transit developing countries and to recommend
further appropriate action, to be forwarded to the Trade and Development
Board and to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

"12. Takes note with appreciation of the results of the specific
studies on transit issues prepared by the secretariat of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development, and encourages the international
community to make use of those studies, as appropriate, when devising
strategies to address the particular needs and problems of land-locked
developing countries;

"13. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development to submit the results of the above-mentioned studies
to the symposium mentioned in paragraph 10 above for further follow-up, as
appropriate;

"14. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development to seek extrabudgetary resources from the United
Nations Development Programme and other voluntary contributions for the
purpose mentioned in paragraph 8 above;

"15. Notes with appreciation the contribution of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development in formulating international measures
to deal with the special problems of the land-locked developing countries,
and urges the Conference, inter alia, to keep under constant review the
evolution of transport-transit infrastructure facilities, institutions and
services, monitor the implementation of agreed measures, collaborate in all
relevant initiatives, including those of private sector and
non-governmental organizations, and serve as a focal point for
cross-regional issues of interest to land-locked developing countries;

"16. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in
consultation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, to take appropriate measures to enhance the capacity
of the Conference, within existing resources for the biennium 1994-1995, in
the area dealing with land-locked developing countries so as to ensure the
effective implementation of the activities called for in the present
resolution and of existing measures in support of those countries;

"17. Urges the international community and the preparatory bodies of
all relevant forthcoming major meetings and conferences of the United
Nations system to take into account, in the preparation of documentation,
the specific needs and requirements of land-locked developing countries and
the participation of those countries in such meetings and conferences;

"18. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development on specific actions related to

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 7

the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries, 8/
and the action taken by the Trade and Development Board related to those
particular needs and problems, as set forth in the reports of the Board on
the second part of its thirty-ninth session, 9/ and on the first part of
its fortieth session, 10/ and requests the Secretary-General of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to prepare another
report, taking into account the provisions of the present resolution, for
submission to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session."

10. At its 47th meeting, on 10 December, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution, submitted by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Leandro Arellano Resendiz (Mexico), on the basis of informal consultations
held on draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.22 (A/C.2/48/L.81).

11. The Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the programme budget
implications (see A/C.2/48/SR.47).

12. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C/2/48/L.81
without a vote (see para. 23, draft resolution III).

13. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.81, draft
resolution A/C.2/48/L.22 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

D. Draft resolutions A/C.2/48/L.23 and L.79

14. At the 39th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Afghanistan,
also on behalf of Tajikistan, and Turkey, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Assistance to land-locked States in Central Asia and Transcaucasia"
(A/C.2/48/L.23) and orally revised it by deleting the words "and Transcaucasia"
in the title, the second preambular paragraph and operative paragraph 1. The
draft resolution, as orally revised, read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling the agreed conclusions and recommendations on priority
areas and modalities for further action to improve transit systems in
land-locked and transit developing countries of the Meeting of Governmental
Experts from Land-Locked and Transit Developing Countries and
Representatives of Donor Countries and Financial and Development
Institutions, convened by the Trade and Development Board at United Nations
Headquarters in May 1993, as set forth in the report of the Meeting, 11/

8/ A/48/487, annex.

9/ A/48/15 (vol. I).

10/ A/48/15 (vol. II).

11/ TD/B/40(1)2-TD/B/LDC/AC.14.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 8

"Recalling also those paragraphs of the agreed conclusions and
recommendations of the Meeting pertaining to the newly independent
land-locked States in Central Asia,

"Noting that these countries are seeking to enter world markets and
that such an objective requires the establishment of a multi-country
transit system,

"Emphasizing the importance of elaborating a programme for improving
the efficiency of the current transit environment, including better
coordination between railway and highway transports, in the land-locked and
transit developing countries concerned,

"1. Recognizes that various forms of international technical and
financial assistance will be required to improve the efficiency of the
current transit environment in the newly independent land-locked and
transit developing countries in Central Asia, including a general survey of
transit infrastructure and rehabilitation needs in support of national and
regional efforts and programmes;

"2. Also recognizes that the work being done by the Economic and
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific and by the Economic Cooperation
Organization (ECO) in this context can provide a basis for further
elaboration;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development in cooperation with the United Nations Development
Programme to evaluate the transit system of the land-locked countries and
the transit developing countries concerned and to elaborate a programme for
improving their transit facilities, and to report to the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session on the implementation of the present
resolution."

15. At its 47th meeting, on 10 December, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution, submitted by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Leandro Arellano Resendiz (Mexico), on the basis of informal consultations
held on draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.23 (A/C.2/48/L.79).

16. The Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the programme budget
implications (see A/C.2/48/SR.47).

17. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.79
without a vote (see para. 23, draft resolution IV).

18. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/48/L.79, draft
resolution A/C.2/48/L.23 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 9

E. Draft decision A/C.2/48/L.75

19. At the 47th meeting, on 10 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Leandro Arellano Resendiz (Mexico), introduced a draft decision submitted by
him entitled "Third United Nations Conference to Review All Aspects of the Set
of Multilaterally Agreed Equitable Principles and Rules for the Control of
Restrictive Business Practices" (A/C.2/48/L.75).

20. The Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the programme budget
implications (see A/C.2/48/SR.47).

21. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft decision A/C.2/48/L.75
without a vote (see para. 25).

22. After the adoption of the draft decision, the representative of Senegal
made a statement (see A/C.2/48/SR.47).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

23. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

International code of conduct on the transfer of technology

The General Assembly

1. Recognizes that the conditions do not currently exist to reach full
agreement on all outstanding issues in the draft code of conduct on the transfer
of technology and also that, should Governments indicate, either directly or
through the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development reporting in accordance with General Assembly resolution 46/214 of
20 December 1991, that there is the convergence of views necessary to reach
agreement on all outstanding issues, then the Trade and Development Board should
re-engage and continue its work aimed at facilitating agreement on the code;

2. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, based on the relevant provisions of the Cartagena
Commitment 12/ and taking into account the findings of the ad hoc Working
Group on the Interrelationship between Investment and Technology Transfer, to
report to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session on the state of the
discussion.

12/ TD/364, part one, sect. A.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 10

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Economic measures as a means of political and economic
coercion against developing countries

The General Assembly,

Recalling the relevant principles set forth in the Charter of the United
Nations,

Reaffirming that no State may use or encourage the use of economic,
political or any other type of measures to coerce another State in order to
obtain from it the subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights,

Bearing in mind the general principles governing international trade and
trade policies for development contained in the relevant resolutions and rules
of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,

Reaffirming its resolutions 44/215 of 22 December 1989 and 46/210 of
20 December 1991,

Gravely concerned that the use of coercive economic measures adversely
affects the economy and development efforts of developing countries and has a
general negative impact on international economic cooperation and on the
worldwide effort to move towards a non-discriminatory, open trading system,

Having considered the note by the Secretary-General prepared in accordance
with General Assembly resolution 46/210, and the ideas contained therein, 13/

Concerned that the mandate as contained in paragraph 4 of its resolution
46/210 has not been fully implemented,

Taking into account the restructuring of the United Nations Secretariat and
the consequent reallocation of functions,

1. Calls upon the international community to adopt urgent and effective
measures to eliminate the use by some developed countries of unilateral economic
coercive measures against developing countries that are not authorized by
relevant organs of the United Nations or are inconsistent with the principles
contained in the Charter of the United Nations, as a means of forcibly imposing
the will of one State on another;

2. Urges the implementation of its resolutions 44/215 and 46/210;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to assign to the Department of Economic
and Social Information and Policy Analysis of the Secretariat, in cooperation
with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the function of
continuing to monitor the imposition of measures of this nature, as well as to

13/ A/48/535.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 11

continue the preparation of studies in this field as mandated by the General
Assembly in its resolutions 44/215 and 46/210;

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its fiftieth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Specific actions related to the particular needs and
problems of land-locked developing countries

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of its resolutions 44/214 of 22 December 1989 and
46/212 of 20 December 1991,

Recognizing that the lack of territorial access to the sea, aggravated by
remoteness and isolation from world markets, and prohibitive transit costs and
risks impose serious constraints on the overall socio-economic development
efforts of the land-locked developing countries,

Recognizing also that fifteen of the land-locked developing countries are
also classified by the United Nations as least developed countries and that
their geographical situation is an added constraint on their overall ability to
cope with the challenges of development,

Recognizing further that most transit countries are themselves developing
countries facing serious economic problems, including the lack of adequate
infrastructure in the transport sector,

Recalling that measures to deal with the transit problems of land-locked
developing countries require closer and even more effective cooperation and
collaboration between those countries and their transit neighbours,

Recalling the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, adopted on
10 December 1982, 14/

Recognizing the important role played by bilateral cooperative arrangements
and regional and subregional cooperation and integration in comprehensively
solving the transit problems of the land-locked developing countries and
improving the transit-transport systems in land-locked and transit developing
countries,

Noting the importance of strengthening the existing international support
measures with a view to addressing further the problems of land-locked
developing countries,

14/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 12

1. Reaffirms the right of access of land-locked countries to and from the
sea and freedom of transit through the territory of transit States by all means
of transport, in accordance with international law;

2. Also reaffirms that transit developing countries, in the exercise of
their full sovereignty over their territory, have the right to take all measures
necessary to ensure that the rights and facilities provided for land-locked
developing countries should in no way infringe upon their legitimate interests;

3. Calls upon both the land-locked developing countries and their transit
neighbours, in the spirit of South-South cooperation, including bilateral
cooperation, to implement measures to strengthen further their cooperative and
collaborative efforts in dealing with their transit problems;

4. Appeals once again to all States, international organizations and
financial institutions to implement, as a matter of urgency and priority, the
specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked
developing countries envisaged in the previous resolutions adopted by the
General Assembly and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the
International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development
Decade, 15/ the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in
particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Countries, adopted at the eighteenth special session of the General
Assembly and contained in the annex to its resolution S-18/3 of 1 May 1990, and
the relevant provisions of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries for the 1990s; 16/

5. Invites the land-locked developing countries and their transit
neighbours to intensify further their cooperative arrangements for the
development of transit infrastructures, institutions and services to facilitate
the faster movement of goods in transit with financial and technical assistance
from donors and financial agencies;

6. Emphasizes that assistance for the improvement of transport-transit
facilities and services should be integrated into the overall economic
development strategies of the land-locked and transit developing countries and
that donor assistance should consequently take into account the requirements for
long-term restructuring of the economies of the land-locked developing
countries;

7. Calls upon donor countries and multilateral financial and development
institutions to provide land-locked and transit developing countries with
appropriate financial and technical assistance in the form of grants or
concessional loans for the construction, maintenance and improvement of their
transport, storage and other transit-related facilities, including alternative
routes and improved communications;

15/ Resolution 45/199, annex.

16/ See Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, Paris, 3-14 September 1990 (A/CONF.147/18), part one.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 13

8. Invites the United Nations Development Programme further to promote,
as appropriate, subregional, regional and interregional projects and programmes
and to expand its support in the transport and communications sectors to the
land-locked and transit developing countries and its technical cooperation for
development geared towards promoting national and collective self-reliance among
them;

9. Takes note of the report of the Meeting of Governmental Experts from
Land-locked and Transit Developing Countries and Representatives of Donor
Countries and Financial and Development Institutions 17/ held in New York in
May 1993, and endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained therein;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to convene in 1995, within the overall
level of resources for the biennium 1994-1995, another meeting of governmental
experts from land-locked and transit developing countries, representatives of
donor countries and financial and development institutions to review progress in
the development of the transit systems in the land-locked and transit developing
countries on the basis of an evaluation of the transit systems of those
countries to be made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development in cooperation with the Administrator of the United
Nations Development Programme and to recommend further appropriate action,
including elaboration of programmes for further improvement of those transit
systems, to the Trade and Development Board and to the General Assembly at its
fiftieth session;

11. Takes note of the results of the specific studies on transit issues
prepared by the secretariat of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, and encourages the international community to make use of them, as
appropriate, when devising strategies to address the particular needs and
problems of land-locked developing countries;

12. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development to organize, within the overall level of resources for the
biennium 1994-1995, and in collaboration with the Administrator of the United
Nations Development Programme and the executive heads of the regional
commissions, a symposium in 1994 for land-locked and transit developing
countries to address specific regional problems in implementing the
recommendations of the Meeting mentioned in paragraph 9 above and to submit the
results of the studies mentioned in paragraph 11 above to that symposium;

13. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development to seek voluntary contributions to ensure participation of
representatives of land-locked and transit developing countries in the meeting
and symposium mentioned in paragraphs 10 and 12 above;

14. Takes note with appreciation of the contribution of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development in formulating international measures to
deal with the Conference to, inter alia, keep under constant review the
evolution of transport-transit infrastructure facilities, institutions and

17/ TD/B/40(1)2-TD/B/LDC/AC.14.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 14

services, monitor the implementation of agreed measures, collaborate in all
relevant initiatives, including those of private sector and non-governmental
organizations, and serve as a focal point on cross-regional issues of interest
to land-locked developing countries;

15. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in consultation
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, to take appropriate measures to enhance the capacity of the
Conference, within existing resources for the biennium 1994-1995, in the area
dealing with land-locked developing countries so as to ensure the effective
implementation of the activities called for in the present resolution and of
existing measures in support of land-locked developing countries;

16. Invites the international community and the preparatory bodies of all
relevant forthcoming major meetings and conferences of the United Nations system
to take into account, in the preparation of documentation, the specific needs
and requirements of land-locked and transit developing countries in the
preparation of documentation and participation of those countries in the
meetings and conferences;

17. Welcomes the reports of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development on specific action related to the specific needs and problems of
land-locked developing countries and requests the Secretary-General of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to prepare another report,
taking into account the provisions of the present resolution, for submission to
the General Assembly at its fiftieth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Assistance to land-locked States in Central Asia

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution entitled "Specific actions related to the
particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries" and expecting
that the newly independent land-locked States in Central Asia will participate
in the activities and meetings referred to in that resolution,

Recalling also the agreed conclusions and recommendations on priority areas
and modalities for further action to improve transit systems in land-locked and
transit developing countries of the Meeting of Governmental Experts from Land-
locked and Transit Developing Countries and Representatives of Donor Countries
and Financial and Development Institutions, convened by the Trade and
Development Board in New York in May 1993, as set forth in the report of the
Meeting, 18/

18/ TD/B/40(1)2-TD/B/LDC/AC.14.

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 15

Recalling further those paragraphs of the agreed conclusions and
recommendations of the Meeting pertaining to the newly independent and
developing land-locked States in Central Asia and their transit developing
country neighbours,

Noting that these countries are seeking to enter world markets and that
such an objective requires the establishment of a multi-country transit system,

Emphasizing the importance of elaborating a programme for improving the
efficiency of the current transit environment, including better coordination
between railway and highway transports, in the newly independent and developing
land-locked States in Central Asia and their transit developing country
neighbours,

Recognizing the important role played by bilateral cooperative
arrangements, multilateral agreements and regional and subregional cooperation
and integration in comprehensively solving the transit problems of the land-
locked developing countries and improving the transit transport systems in the
newly independent and developing land-locked States in Central Asia and their
transit developing country neighbours,

1. Recognizes that various forms of international technical and financial
assistance will be required to improve the efficiency of the current transit
environment in the newly independent and developing land-locked States in
Central Asia and their transit developing country neighbours, including a
general survey of transit infrastructure and rehabilitation needs in support of
national and regional efforts and programmes;

2. Also recognizes that the work being done by the Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific and by the Economic Cooperation Organization
in this context can provide a basis for further elaboration;

3. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, in cooperation with the United Nations Development
Programme, to evaluate the transit system of the newly independent and
developing land-locked States in Central Asia and their transit developing
country neighbours and to elaborate a programme for improving their transit
facilities, and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session on
the implementation of the present resolution.

* * *

24. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

/...



A/48/717/Add.2
English
Page 16

Third United Nations Conference to Review All Aspects of the
Set of Multilaterally Agreed Equitable Principles and Rules

for the Control of Restrictive Business Practices

The General Assembly takes note of the recommendation of the Second United
Nations Conference to Review All Aspects of the Set of Multilaterally Agreed
Equitable Principles and Rules for the Control of Restrictive Business
Practices, held at Geneva from 26 November to 7 December 1990, that a third
review conference be convened in 1995, and, taking into account the work being
done in that field by relevant intergovernmental bodies, decides to convene,
under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, a
Third United Nations Conference to Review All Aspects of the Set of
Multilaterally Agreed Equitable Principles and Rules for the Control of
Restrictive Business Practices, at Geneva in 1995.

-----


