





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/670
6 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 65

AMENDMENT OF THE TREATY BANNING NUCLEAR WEAPON TESTS IN THE
ATMOSPHERE, IN OUTER SPACE AND UNDER WATER

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in
the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water" was included in the provisional
agenda of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly in accordance with
its resolution 47/46 of 9 December 1992.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October 1993, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on those items
took place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and 28 October (see
A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place
at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.18-23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place at
the 24th to 30th meetings, on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 65, the First Committee had before it the following
documents: letters dated 5 August, 8 September and 6 October 1993 from the
Permanent Representative of Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/48/297, A/48/381 and A/48/484-S/26552).

93-68783 (E) 081293 /...



A/48/670
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/48/L.9

5. At the 21st meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Mexico, on behalf
of Brunei Darussalam, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, Nigeria,
Peru, the Philippines, Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the United
Republic of Tanzania and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in
Outer Space and under Water" (A/C.1/48/L.9), which was later also sponsored by
Bolivia, Ecuador, Gabon, Rwanda and the Sudan.

6. At its 27th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.9 by a recorded vote of 99 to 3, with 40 abstentions (see para. 7).
The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic
of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/670
English
Page 3

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in
the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 44/106 of 15 December 1989, 45/50 of
4 December 1990, 46/28 of 6 December 1991 and 47/46 of 9 December 1992,

Reiterating its conviction that a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty is
the highest-priority measure for the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and for
the achievement of the objective of nuclear disarmament,

Recalling the central role of the United Nations in the field of nuclear
disarmament and in particular in the cessation of all nuclear-test explosions,
as well as the persistent efforts of non-governmental organizations in the
achievement of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty,

Conscious of the growing environmental concerns throughout the world and of
the past and potential negative effects of nuclear testing on the environment,

Recalling its resolution 1910 (XVIII) of 27 November 1963, in which it
noted with approval the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere,
in Outer Space and under Water, 2/ signed on 5 August 1963, and requested the
Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament 3/ to continue with
a sense of urgency its negotiations to achieve the objectives set forth in the
preamble to the Treaty,

Recalling also that more than one third of the parties to the Treaty
requested the Depositary Governments to convene a conference to consider an
amendment that would convert the Treaty into a comprehensive test-ban treaty,

Recalling further that a substantive session of the Amendment Conference of
the States Parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere,
in Outer Space and under Water was held in New York from 7 to 18 January 1991,

Reiterating its conviction that the Amendment Conference will facilitate
the attainment of the objectives set forth in the Treaty and thus serve to
strengthen it,

2/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480, No. 6964.

3/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

/...



A/48/670
English
Page 4

Noting with satisfaction the unilateral nuclear-test moratoria announced by
several nuclear-weapon States,

Welcoming the decision of the Conference on Disarmament to give its Ad Hoc
Committee a mandate to negotiate a comprehensive test ban,

Recalling its recommendation that arrangements be made to ensure that
intensive efforts continue, under the auspices of the Amendment Conference,
until a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty is achieved, and its call that all
parties participate in, and contribute to the success of, the Amendment
Conference,

Recalling also the decision adopted by the Amendment Conference 4/ to the
effect that, since further work needed to be undertaken on certain aspects of a
comprehensive test-ban treaty, especially those with regard to verification of
compliance and possible sanctions against non-compliance, the President of the
Conference should conduct consultations with a view to achieving progress on
those issues and to resuming the work of the Conference at an appropriate time,

Welcoming the ongoing consultations being conducted by the President of the
Amendment Conference,

1. Notes the Concluding Statement 5/ made by the President of the
Amendment Conference at the special meeting of the States parties to the Treaty
Banning

Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water, held on
10 August 1993, in which broad agreement was found for:

(a) Pursuing work for a comprehensive test ban in the Amendment Conference
and the Conference on Disarmament in a mutually supportive and mutually
complementary manner;

(b) Holding another special meeting early in 1994 to review developments
and assess the situation regarding a comprehensive test ban and to examine the
feasibility of resuming the work of the Amendment Conference later that year;

(c) Promoting universality of a comprehensive test ban, by having the
President of the Amendment Conference liaise closely with the Conference on
Disarmament and the five nuclear-weapon States;

2. Recommends that arrangements should be made to ensure the fullest
possible participation of non-governmental organizations in the Amendment
Conference;

3. Reiterates its conviction that, pending the conclusion of a
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty, the nuclear-weapon States should suspend

4/ PTBT/CONF/13/Rev.1, para. 26.

5/ A/48/381, annex.

/...



A/48/670
English
Page 5

all nuclear-test explosions through an agreed moratorium or unilateral
moratoria;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests
in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water".

-----

/...


