





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/668
9 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 63

THE ROLE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE CONTEXT OF INTERNATIONAL
SECURITY, DISARMAMENT AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields" was included in
the provisional agenda of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly in
accordance with its resolution 47/44 of 9 December 1992.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October 1993, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on those items
took place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and 28 October
(see A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took
place at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.18-23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place at
the 24th to 30th meetings, on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 63, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Disarmament Commission; 1/

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42).

93-69561 (E) 101293 /...



A/48/668
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 4 August 1993 from the Permanent Representative of Brazil
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the final
document of the third Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government
(A/48/291-S/26242).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/48/L.30

5. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Germany, on
behalf of Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark,
Ecuador, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Nepal, New Zealand, Norway,
Sweden and Uruguay, introduced a draft resolution entitled "The role of science
and technology in the context of international security, disarmament and other
related fields" (A/C.1/48/L.30), which was later also sponsored by Austria,
Chile, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Greece, Honduras, Luxembourg, Panama,
Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovakia,
Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.

6. At its 26th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.30 by a recorded vote of 133 to none, with 3 abstentions (see
para. 7). The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

2/ Subsequently, the delegations of Djibouti and Kyrgyzstan indicated
that they had intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/668
English
Page 3

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The role of science and technology in the context of international
security, disarmament and other related fields

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 47/44 of 9 December 1992,

Taking note of the report of the Disarmament Commission on its 1993
substantive session, 3/ in particular on the work of Working Group III on
agenda item 6, entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields", 4/

Taking note also of the report of the Secretary-General on scientific and
technological developments and their impact on international security, 5/

Recognizing that science and technology per se are deemed to be neutral,
that scientific and technological developments can have both civilian and
military applications and that progress in science and technology for civilian
applications needs to be maintained and encouraged,

Noting that qualitative improvements in science and technology with
military applications have implications for international security and that
States, in this regard, should assess carefully the impact of the use of science
and technology on international security,

Recognizing that progress in the application of science and technology
contributes substantially to the implementation of arms control and disarmament
agreements, inter alia, in the fields of weapons disposal, military conversion
and verification,

Recalling that norms and guidelines for the transfer of high technology
with military applications should take into account legitimate requirements for

3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42).

4/ Ibid., para. 31.

5/ A/48/360.

/...



A/48/668
English
Page 4

the maintenance of international peace and security, while ensuring that they do
not deny access to high-technology products, services and know-how for peaceful
purposes,

Emphasizing that commitment to, and the fulfilment of, comprehensive and
balanced objectives of non-proliferation in all its aspects pertaining to the
acquisition or transfer of high technology relevant to weapons of mass
destruction are essential for the maintenance of international security and
international cooperation, and for the promotion of transfers of such technology
for peaceful purposes,

Noting the interest of the international community in cooperation in the
fields of disarmament-related science and technology and the transfer of high
technology with military applications,

Mindful that international cooperation should be encouraged with respect to
the production of disarmament-related technical equipment with the purpose,
inter alia, of reducing the costs of implementing arms limitation and
disarmament agreements,

1. Calls upon the Disarmament Commission to conclude its work on agenda
item 6 in 1994 and to submit as soon as possible specific recommendations on
this matter to the General Assembly;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to pursue constructively in
response to General Assembly resolution 46/36 L of 9 December 1991 its work on
the agenda item entitled "Transparency in armaments", which includes
consideration of the elaboration of practical means to increase openness and
transparency related to the transfer of high technology with military
applications;

3. Invites Member States to undertake additional efforts to apply science
and technology for disarmament-related purposes and to make disarmament-related
technologies available to interested States;

4. Also invites Member States to widen multilateral dialogue, bearing in
mind the proposal for seeking universally acceptable norms or guidelines that
would regulate international transfers of high technology with military
applications;

5. Encourages the United Nations to contribute, within existing mandates,
to promoting the application of science and technology for peaceful purposes;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields".

-----


