





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/667
7 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 62

SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
IMPACT ON INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security" was included in the provisional agenda of the
forty-eighth session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 47/43 of
9 December 1992.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to
it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and 28 October (see
A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place
at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.18-23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place at
the 24th to 30th meetings on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November (see
A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 62, the First Committee had before it the report of
the Secretary-General on scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security (A/48/360).

93-68998 (E) 081293 /...



A/48/667
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/48/L.22

5. At the 23rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of India, on behalf
of Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia, Costa Rica, India, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and
Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Scientific and technological
developments and their impact on international security" (A/C.1/48/L.22), which
was later also sponsored by Honduras, Nigeria and Panama.

6. At its 26th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.22 by a recorded vote of 104 to 4 with 29 abstentions (see para. 7).
The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Armenia, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Gabon, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Qatar, Republic of
Korea, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: France, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Turkey.

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/48/667
English
Page 3

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Scientific and technological developments and
their impact on international security

The General Assembly,

Recalling that at its tenth special session, the first special session
devoted to disarmament, it unanimously stressed the importance of both
qualitative and quantitative measures in the process of disarmament,

Recognizing that scientific and technological developments can have both
civilian and military applications and that progress in science and technology
for civilian applications needs to be maintained and encouraged,

Noting with concern the potential in technological advances for application
to military purposes, which could lead to more sophisticated weapons and new
weapons systems,

Stressing the interests of the international community in the subject and
the need to follow closely the scientific and technological developments that
may have a negative impact on the security environment and on the process of
arms limitation and disarmament, and to channel scientific and technological
developments for beneficial purposes,

Emphasizing that the proposal contained in its resolution 43/77 A of
7 December 1988 is without prejudice to research and development efforts being
undertaken for peaceful purposes,

Noting the results of the United Nations Conference on New Trends in
Science and Technology: Implications for International Peace and Security, held
at Sendai, Japan, from 16 to 19 April 1990, 2/ and recognizing, in this regard
the need for the scientific and policy communities to work together in dealing
with the complex implications of technological change,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled "Scientific
and technological developments and their impact on international security"; 3/

2. Takes note also of the interim report of the Secretary-General 4/
submitted in pursuance of its resolution 45/60 of 4 December 1990;

2/ See A/45/568.

3/ A/45/568.

4/ A/47/355.

/...



A/48/667
English
Page 4

3. Fully agrees that:

(a) The international community needs to position itself better to follow
the nature and direction of technological change;

(b) The United Nations can serve as a catalyst and a clearing-house for
ideas to this purpose;

4. Calls upon the Disarmament Commission to conclude its work on agenda
item 6 and to submit it to the General Assembly;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to follow scientific and
technological developments in order to make an assessment of emerging new
technologies and to submit to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session a
framework for technology assessment guided, inter alia, by the criteria
suggested in his report;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session the item entitled "Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security".

-----


