





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/632/Add.3
16 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 114 (c)

HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS: HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATIONS AND REPORTS
OF SPECIAL RAPPORTEURS AND REPRESENTATIVES

Report of the Third Committee (Part IV)*

Rapporteur: Mrs. Rosa Carmina Recinos de MALDONADO (Guatemala)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-eighth session the item entitled:

"Human rights questions:

"(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and
representatives"

and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item in conjunction with items 115 and 172 at
its 36th to 55th meetings, on 17 to 19, 22 to 24, 26, 29 and 30 November and on
1, 3, 6 and 8 December 1993. An account of the Committee’s discussion of the
item is contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/48/SR.36-55).

3. For the documents before the Committee under this item, see document
A/48/632.

________________________

* The report of the Committee on item 114 will be issued in five parts
(see also A/48/632 and Add.1, 2 and 4).

93-70986 (E) 181293 /...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.36 and Rev.1

4. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of the United States
of America, on behalf of Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, the Gambia, Germany, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, and the United States of America, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Cuba" (A/C.3/48/L.36), which
read:

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as stated in the Charter of
the United Nations and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights 1/ and the International Covenants on Human Rights 2/ and other
applicable human rights instruments,

"Reaffirming also that all Member States have an obligation to fulfil
the commitments they have freely undertaken under the various international
instruments,

"Taking particular note of Commission on Human Rights resolution
1993/63 of 10 March 1993, 3/ in which the Commission recognized with deep
appreciation the efforts of the Secretary-General and of the Special
Rapporteur to carry out their mandate concerning the situation of human
rights in Cuba,

"Noting as well concern about ongoing reports of serious violations of
human rights in Cuba, as outlined in the interim report on the situation of
human rights in Cuba 4/ presented to the General Assembly by the Special
Rapporteur,

"Deeply concerned that Cuba increased repression against leaders of
several human rights groups in Cuba on United Nations Human Rights Day
(10 December 1992),

"Recalling the failure of the Government of Cuba to cooperate with the
Commission on Human Rights with regard to its resolution 1991/68 of

1/ Resolution 217 A (III).

2/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

3/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993,
Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

4/ A/48/562.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 3

6 March 1991 5/ by refusing to permit the Special Representative to visit
Cuba, and its response, as cited in appendix I to the 1992 interim report
of the Special Rapporteur, 6/ in which Cuba expressed its decision not to
’implement so much as a single comma of resolution 1992/61’,

"1. Commends the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights
for his interim report on the situation of human rights in Cuba; 4/

"2. Expresses its full support for the work of the Special
Rapporteur;

"3. Calls upon the Government of Cuba to cooperate fully with the
Special Rapporteur by permitting him full and free access in order to
establish contact with the Government and the citizens of Cuba so that he
may fulfil the mandate entrusted to him;

"4. Regrets profoundly the numerous uncontested reports of violations
of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms that are described in the
report of the Special Rapporteur of the Secretary-General 7/ and in the
interim report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights; 4/

"5. Calls upon the Government of Cuba to adopt measures proposed by
the Special Rapporteur to ratify international human rights instruments, to
cease the persecution and punishment of citizens for reasons related to
freedom of expression and peaceful association, to permit legalization of
independent groups, to respect guarantees of due process, to permit access
to the prisons by national independent groups and international
humanitarian agencies, to review sentences for crimes of a political nature
and to cease retaliatory measures towards those seeking permission to leave
the country;

"6. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session."

5. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America orally revised it.

6. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/48/L.36/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.3/48/L.36, which incorporated the revisions made by the
representative of the United States of America at the 50th meeting.

5/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1991,
Supplement No. 2 (E/1991/22), chap. II, sect. A.

6/ A/47/625.

7/ E/CN.4/1993/39.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 4

7. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Cuba,
Yemen and India (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

8. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.36/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 62 to 18, with 52 abstentions (see
para. 67, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows: 8/

In favour: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile,
Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador,
Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Kuwait, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay.

Against: China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ghana,
India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia,
Myanmar, Namibia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda,
Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan,
Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Dominican
Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guyana, Indonesia,
Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mozambique, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua
New Guinea, Peru, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Tajikistan, Thailand, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Ukraine, Venezuela.

9. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Barbados, Malaysia and Ukraine
(see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

8/ Subsequently, the delegation of Liechtenstein indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour, and the delegation of the Philippines indicated that
it had intended to abstain. The delegation of Andorra indicated that, had it
been present, it would have voted in favour, and the delegation of the United
Republic of Tanzania indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted
against. The delegations of the Bahamas and the Niger indicated that, had they
been present, they would have abstained.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 5

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.51 and Rev.1

10. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Bangladesh, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon,
Costa Rica, Djibouti, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, the Gambia, the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Malaysia, Morocco, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, the Sudan,
Tunisia, Turkey and Yemen, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Rape and
abuse of women in the territory of the former Yugoslavia" (A/C.3/48/L.51), which
read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the purpose and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 9/ the International
Covenants on Human Rights, 10/ the International Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 11/ the Convention on
the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, 12/ the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment
or Punishment, 13/ the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women, 14/ the Convention on the Rights of the
Child 15/ and other instruments of international humanitarian law,
including the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 16/ and the
Additional Protocols thereto of 1977, 17/

"Recalling General Assembly resolution 3074 (XXVIII) of
3 December 1973, entitled ’Principles of international cooperation in the
detection, arrest, extradition and punishment of persons guilty of war
crimes and crimes against humanity’,

"Recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/8 of
23 February 1993, entitled ’Rape and abuse of women in the territory of the
former Yugoslavia’,

9/ Resolution 217 A (III).

10/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

11/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

12/ Resolution 260 A (III).

13/ Resolution 39/46, annex.

14/ Resolution 34/180, annex.

15/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

16/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

17/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1125, No. 17512.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 6

"Appalled at the recurring and substantiated reports of widespread
rape and abuse of women and children in the former Yugoslavia, in
particular its systematic use against the Muslim women and children in
Bosnia and Herzegovina by Serbian forces,

"Reaffirming the relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular
resolution 798 (1992) of 18 December 1992 in which, inter alia, the Council
strongly condemned these acts of unspeakable brutality,

"Convinced that this heinous practice constitutes a deliberate weapon
of war in fulfilling the policy of ethnic cleansing carried out by Serbian
forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and noting General Assembly
resolution 47/121 of 18 December 1992, in which the Assembly stated,
inter alia, that the abhorrent policy of ethnic cleansing was a form of
genocide,

"Welcoming the initiatives taken by the Special Rapporteur on the
situation of human rights in the former Yugoslavia, particularly his prompt
dispatch of a team of experts to the former Yugoslavia to investigate the
allegations of rape and abuse of women,

"Welcoming also the initiative of the European Council on the rapid
dispatch of a mission to investigate the treatment of Muslim women in the
former Yugoslavia, and the delegation’s report, 18/

"Noting with deep concern the findings of the team of experts
dispatched by the Special Rapporteur, 19/ and those of the mission
dispatched by the European Council,

"Welcoming the establishment of an International Tribunal for the
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since
1992, in pursuance of Security Council resolutions 808 (1993) and
827 (1993),

"Noting with deep concern the reports on the findings of the Special
Rapporteur 20/ and the Secretary-General, assisted by the staff of the
Special Rapporteur, 21/ regarding rape and abuse of women in the
territory of the former Yugoslavia, particularly Bosnia and Herzegovina,

"Deeply alarmed at the situation facing victims of rape in the
conflicts in different parts of the world, in particular in the former
Yugoslavia, and the continuing use of rape as an ’instrument of war’,

18/ E/CN.4/1993/92.

19/ E/CN.4/1993/50, annex II.

20/ E/CN.4/1994/47.

21/ E/CN.4/1994/5.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 7

"Desirous of ensuring that any person guilty of rape in the former
Yugoslavia will be brought to justice by the International Tribunal,

"Recognizing the extraordinary suffering of the victims of rape and
sexual violence and the necessity for an appropriate response to their
suffering,

"Taking into account resolution 37/7 of 25 March 1993 of the
Commission on the Status of Women,

"Noting with appreciation the work of humanitarian organizations aimed
at supporting the victims of rape and abuse and alleviating their
suffering,

"1. Strongly condemns the abhorrent practice of rape and abuse of
women and children in the former Yugoslavia which, in the circumstances,
constitutes a war crime;

"2. Expresses its outrage that the systematic practice of rape is
being used as a weapon of war against Muslim women and children and as an
instrument of the policy of ethnic cleansing carried out in Bosnia and
Herzegovina by the Serbian forces, and that rape has also been used as an
instrument of ethnic cleansing in Croatia;

"3. Demands that those involved immediately cease these outrageous
acts, which are in gross violation of international humanitarian law,
including the Geneva Conventions of 1949 16/ and the Additional Protocols
thereto of 1977, 17/ and take immediate action to ensure the enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with their obligations
under these instruments and other applicable international human rights
instruments;

"4. Urges all States Members of the United Nations to take joint and
separate action, in cooperation with the United Nations, to bring about an
end to this despicable practice;

"5. Reaffirms that all persons who perpetrate or authorize crimes
against humanity and other violations of international humanitarian law are
individually responsible for those violations, and that those in positions
of authority who have failed adequately to ensure that persons under their
control comply with the relevant international instruments are accountable
along with the perpetrators;

"6. Urges States Members of the United Nations to exert every effort
to bring to justice, in accordance with international recognized principles
of due process, all those individuals directly or indirectly involved in
these outrageous international crimes;

"7. Commends the Special Rapporteur for his latest report on the
situation of human rights in the territory of the former Yugoslavia; 20/

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 8

"8. Urges all States and all relevant intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations, including the United Nations Children’s
Fund, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and
the World Health Organization, to provide to the victims of such rape and
abuse appropriate assistance for their physical and mental rehabilitation;

"9. Requests the Special Rapporteur to pursue a specific
investigation into the rape and abuse of women and children in the former
Yugoslavia, including the dispatch of a qualified team of experts, to
coordinate with the relevant thematic special rapporteurs of the Commission
on Human Rights, with the mission dispatched by the European Council and
with any other missions and to present a further report to the Commission;

"10. Requests the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of
Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian
Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 to give
priority to the cases of the victims of rape in the former Yugoslavia, and
to give the perpetrators of such heinous crimes exemplary punishments;

"11. Requests the Secretary-General to provide such necessary means as
are available to him in the area to enable any future missions to have free
and secure access to places of detention;

"12. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly not later
than 31 January 1994;

"13. Decides to remain seized of this matter."

11. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Pakistan orally
revised it.

12. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "Rape and abuse of women in the former Yugoslavia"
(A/C.3/48/L.51/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.51, which incorporated the revisions made by the representative of
Pakistan at the 50th meeting.

13. Subsequently, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bolivia,
Cambodia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Honduras, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kyrgyzstan,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal, the Republic of Korea,
Samoa, San Marino, Slovenia, the Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and
Uruguay joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

14. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the
revised draft resolution as follows:

(a) The title was revised to read "Rape and abuse of women in the areas of
armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia";



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 9

(b) The words "where appropriate" were added at the end of the thirteenth
preambular paragraph;

(c) In the fourteenth preambular paragraph, the words "and compensation"
were deleted after the words "assistance and";

(d) In operative paragraph 10, the word "Determines" was replaced with the
word "Declares".

15. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.51/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 67, draft
resolution II).

16. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements were made by
the representatives of India and Bosnia and Herzegovina (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.57

17. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Belgium, on
behalf of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica,
the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
Norway, Panama, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Iraq"
(A/C.3/48/L.57). Subsequently, Andorra joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

18. At the 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Iraq made a
statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.57
by a recorded vote of 105 to 2, with 41 abstentions (see para. 67, draft
resolution III). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 10

Arab Republic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Iraq, Sudan.

Abstaining: Algeria, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei Darussalam,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Chad, China, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, El Salvador, Fiji,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Indonesia, Kenya, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Sierra
Leone, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Tunisia, Uganda,
United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.58

20. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Belgium, on
behalf of Australia, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, introduced
a draft resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran" (A/C.3/48/L.58).

21. At the 53rd meeting, on 6 December, statements were made by the
representatives of Egypt and Algeria (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

22. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.58
by a recorded vote of 68 to 22, with 45 abstentions (see para. 67, draft
resolution IV). The voting was as follows: 22/

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Finland, France, Gambia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana,
Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Portugal, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, San Marino,
Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Togo, Trinidad

22/ Subsequently, the delegation of Iraq indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour; and the delegation of Cameroon indicated that, had it been
present, it would have abstained.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 11

and Tobago, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela, Zambia.

Against: Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brunei
Darussalam, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Turkmenistan,
Viet Nam.

Abstaining: Albania, Angola, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, El Salvador,
Fiji, Georgia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Solomon Islands, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of
Tanzania, Zimbabwe.

23. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Ukraine and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.62 and Rev.1

24. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of the United States
of America, on behalf of Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Finland, France,
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Monaco, Morocco,
Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, the Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden,
Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United
States of America, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation of human
rights in Somalia" (A/C.3/48/L.62), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United
Nations, the International Bill of Human Rights 23/ and other applicable
human rights instruments,

"Gravely concerned by the situation in Somalia, including the
extensive damage and destruction of villages, towns and cities, the heavy
damage inflicted by the civil conflict on the country’s infrastructure and
the still widespread disruption of many public facilities and services and
the lack of a governmental authority to ensure even basic human rights,

23/ See resolutions 217 A (III) and 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 12

"Deploring attacks against United Nations personnel and personnel of
other humanitarian organizations in Somalia, sometimes resulting in serious
injuries or deaths,

"Recalling Security Council resolution 733 (1992) of 21 January 1992,
and all subsequent relevant Security Council resolutions, General Assembly
resolution 47/167 of 18 December 1992, and resolution 1993/86 of the
Commission on Human Rights of 10 March 1993,

"Commending the ongoing efforts in Somalia of the United Nations, its
specialized agencies, humanitarian organizations, non-governmental
organizations and countries in the region,

"Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Independent
Expert 24/ dated 26 October 1993,

"1. Commends the Independent Expert for his report on the situation
of human rights in Somalia;

"2. Urges all Somali parties in the conflict to confirm their
commitment to the Addis Ababa agreement of 27 March 1993;

"3. Also urges all Somalis to work together towards peace and
security in Somalia and to guarantee the protection of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all Somalis;

"4. Calls upon all parties to protect United Nations personnel,
civilians and humanitarian relief workers from being killed, tortured or
arbitrarily detained;

"5. Requests that, following the restoration of political stability
and security in Somalia, the Secretary-General and, if necessary the
Security Council, consider establishing a group of independent human rights
monitors, funded from within existing United Nations resources, to receive
complaints and collect and investigate reports of violations of human
rights and to transmit them, where appropriate, to the United Nations
Centre for Human Rights, in an effort to prevent human rights violations;

"6. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session."

25. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/48/L.62/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.3/48/L.62, now joined by Andorra, Guinea, Japan, Luxembourg,
New Zealand, the Netherlands, Sierra Leone and Slovakia.

26. At the same meeting, the representative of Djibouti made a statement (see
A/C.3/48/SR.53).

24/ A/48/510.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 13

27. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.62/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 67, draft resolution V).

28. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements were made by
the representatives of the Philippines, Uganda, Iraq and the Sudan.

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.65 and Rev.1

29. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of the United States
of America, on behalf of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark,
Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, the Republic of
Korea, Romania, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the United States of America, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Situation of human rights in the Sudan" (A/C.3/48/L.65), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 25/ the
International Covenants on Human Rights, 26/ and the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 27/

"Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to comply with the
obligations laid down in the various instruments in this field,

"Recalling resolution AHG/Res.213 (XXVIII) on the strengthening of
cooperation and coordination among African States adopted by the Assembly
of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at
its twenty-eighth ordinary session, held at Dakar from 29 June to
1 July 1992, 28/ and recalling the Addis Ababa agreement of
July 1990, 29/

"Noting with deep concern reports of grave human rights violations in
the Sudan, particularly summary executions, detentions without trial,
forced displacement of persons and torture, described in part in the
reports submitted to the Commission on Human Rights at its forty-eighth
session by the Special Rapporteurs on torture and on summary or arbitrary
executions,

25/ Resolution 217 A (III), annex.

26/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

27/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

28/ See A/47/558, annex II.

29/ See A/45/482, annex II.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 14

"Disturbed by the lack of progress, despite the announcement by the
Government of the Sudan of its intention to convene an independent judicial
inquiry commission to investigate the killings of Sudanese nationals
employees of foreign government relief organizations,

"Concerned over the reported attack on 12 November 1992 by aeroplanes
of the Government of the Sudan on an airstrip in Thiet that resulted in
injuries to three relief workers, and further concerned by the reported
bombing of civilian areas in Loa and Pageri that may have resulted in
deaths or injuries,

"Deeply concerned that access by the civilian population to
humanitarian assistance is being impeded, which poses a threat to human
life and constitutes an offence to human dignity, but welcoming the
continuing dialogue between the Government of the Sudan and other parties,
donor Governments and international private voluntary agencies regarding
delivery of humanitarian aid, and expressing the hope that such dialogue
will result in improved cooperation for the delivery of humanitarian
assistance,

"Alarmed by the large number of internally displaced persons and
victims of discrimination in the Sudan, including members of minorities who
have been forcibly displaced in violation of their human rights and who are
in need of relief assistance and of protection,

"Alarmed also by the mass exodus of refugees into neighbouring
countries, and conscious of the burden that this places on those countries,
but expressing its appreciation for the continuing efforts to assist them,
thereby easing the burden on host countries,

"Emphasizing that it is essential to put an end to the serious
deterioration of the human rights situation in the Sudan, including that in
the Nuba Mountains,

"Welcoming the efforts of the United Nations and other humanitarian
organizations to provide humanitarian relief to those Sudanese in need,

"Noting with appreciation the efforts of the Special Rapporteur, and
commending him for his interim report on the human rights situation in the
Sudan,

"1. Expresses its deep concern at the continuing and serious human
rights violations in the Sudan, including summary executions, detentions
without due process, forced displacement of persons and torture;

"2. Notes with concern the reprisals taken by the Government of the
Sudan against those who contacted or attempted to contact the Special
Rapporteur for the Sudan;

"3. Urges the Government of the Sudan to respect fully human rights,
and calls upon all parties to cooperate in order to ensure such respect;

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 15

"4. Calls upon the Government of the Sudan to comply with applicable
international human rights instruments, in particular the International
Covenants on Human Rights and the Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, to which the Sudan is a party, and to
ensure that all individuals in its territory and subject to its
jurisdiction, including members of all religious and ethnic groups, enjoy
the rights recognized in those instruments;

"5. Calls upon all parties to the hostilities to respect fully the
applicable provisions of international humanitarian law including article 3
common to the Geneva Conventions of 1949, 30/ and the Additional
Protocols thereto of 1977, 31/ to halt the use of weapons against the
civilian population, to protect all civilians from violations, including
arbitrary detention, ill-treatment, torture and summary execution;

"6. Expresses its appreciation to the humanitarian organizations for
their work in helping displaced persons and drought and conflict victims in
the Sudan, and calls on all parties to protect humanitarian relief workers;

"7. Calls upon the Special Rapporteur on summary or arbitrary
executions again to address the killing of Sudanese national employees of
foreign government relief organizations;

"8. Calls upon the Government of the Sudan to explain fully the
actions to obstruct the efforts of the Special Rapporteur for the Sudan,
especially the ill-treatment afforded those who contacted or attempted to
contact him;

"9. Also calls upon the Government of the Sudan to ensure a full,
thorough and prompt investigation of the killings of Sudanese nationals
employees of foreign government relief organizations by the independent
judicial inquiry commission, to bring to justice those responsible for the
killings and to provide just compensation to the families of the victims;

"10. Further calls upon the Government of the Sudan to investigate and
explain without delay the circumstances behind the air attacks on 12 and
23 November 1993;

"11. Strongly urges all parties to the hostilities to redouble their
efforts to negotiate an equitable solution to the civil conflict to ensure
respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the Sudanese
people, thereby creating the necessary conditions to end the exodus of
Sudanese refugees to neighbouring countries and facilitating their early
return to the Sudan, and welcomes efforts to facilitate dialogue among the
parties to that end;

30/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

31/ Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 16

"12. Calls upon the Government of the Sudan and other parties to
permit international agencies, humanitarian organizations and donor
Governments to deliver humanitarian assistance to the civilian population
and to cooperate with the recent initiatives of the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations Secretariat to deliver
humanitarian assistance to all persons in need;

"13. Recommends that the serious human rights situation in the Sudan
be monitored, and invites the Commission on Human Rights at its fiftieth
session to give urgent attention to the situation of human rights in the
Sudan;

"14. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session."

30. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America orally revised it.

31. At the same meeting, the representative of the Sudan made a statement (see
A/C.3/48/SR.50).

32. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/48/L.65/Rev.1), submitted by the United States of
America on behalf of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, Ghana, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of
America, which incorporated the revisions made by the representative of the
United States of America at the 50th meeting.

33. At the 53rd meeting, the Secretary of the Committee read out an oral
revision to the revised draft resolution, by which a new operative paragraph 2
was inserted, which read:

"2. Takes note of paragraph 24 of the report of the Special
Rapporteur for the Sudan, in which he stated that the Government of the
Sudan had cooperated with the Special Rapporteur by arranging the meetings
he had requested and further facilitated visits to the locations he had
wished to see".

The remaining operative paragraphs were renumbered.

34. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Cuba,
Cameroon and Uganda (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

35. On the proposal of the representative of the Sudan, the Committee then took
action on revised draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.65/Rev.1 as follows:

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 17

(a) The eleventh preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of
148 to none. The voting was as follows: 32/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic
of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: None.

(b) Operative paragraph 12 was adopted by a recorded vote of 148 to none.
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,

32/ Subsequently, the delegation of Yemen indicated that it had not
participated in the voting.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 18

France, Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, San Marino,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States
of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: None.

(c) New operative paragraph 2 was adopted by a recorded vote of 147 to
none, with 1 abstention. The voting was as follows: 33/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,

33/ Subsequently, the Secretariat was informed that the delegation of
Seychelles had not been present during the voting.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 19

Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Seychelles.

(d) The draft resolution, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded vote of
102 to 11, with 31 abstentions (see para. 67, draft resolution VI). The voting
was as follows: 34/

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, San Marino,
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname,
Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: China, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Myanmar, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Viet Nam.

34/ Subsequently, the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina indicated that
it had intended to abstain.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 20

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Cote d’Ivoire,
El Salvador, Guinea-Bissau, Jamaica, Kenya, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Swaziland,
Thailand, Tunisia.

36. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of the
Sudan and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya made statements (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.67

37. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Mexico, on behalf
of Algeria, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Peru, the
Philippines, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, Tunisia, Turkey and Uruguay,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "International Convention on the
Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families"
(A/C.3/48/L.67). Subsequently, Guinea-Bissau, India, Senegal, Sierra Leone and
the Sudan joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

38. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.67 without a vote (see para. 67, draft resolution VII).

39. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Japan
made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 21

H. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.68 and Rev.1

40. At the 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Mexico, on behalf
of Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, France, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico,
Spain, Sweden, the United States of America and Venezuela, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in El Salvador" (A/C.3/48/L.68),
which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the international human rights instruments,

"Recalling its resolution 47/140 of 18 December 1992, as well as
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/93 of 10 March 1993 35/ and
the statement of 20 August 1993 by the Chairman of the Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities on support for
the peace process in El Salvador,

"Taking into account the reports of the Secretary-General and the
Director of the Human Rights Division of the United Nations Observer
Mission in El Salvador,

"Convinced that full and speedy implementation of the Peace Accords is
necessary in order to guarantee full respect for human rights and the
consolidation of the reconciliation and democratization process under way
in the country,

"Welcoming the fact that many of the agreements have already been put
into effect by the Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Martí
para la Liberación Nacional,

"Concerned none the less that despite the appeals of the Security
Council and the Secretary-General most of the agreements referred to in
Security Council resolution 832 (1993) of 27 May 1993 have not been
implemented, and that there have been some irregularities in the
application of the agreements relating to public security,

"Concerned also about the resurgence of acts of violence and their
negative effect on the political climate of the country, particularly about
the recent assassinations and threats which may be politically motivated
directed against leaders and other members of different political
tendencies, probably by illegal armed groups, which repeat the behavioural
patterns prevailing in the past, and alarmed because these acts of
political violence could jeopardize the peace process and the holding of
free and fair elections, unless effective measures to eliminate and punish
such human rights violations are taken immediately,

35/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993,
Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 22

"Noting with interest the agreement between the Government of
El Salvador and the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador on the
establishment of a mechanism to investigate clandestine armed groups and
their possible connection with the resurgence of political violence,

"Taking note of the importance of having adopted a number of reforms
of the judicial system, as well as of the need to adopt both the reforms
which are in the process of being approved and the reforms recommended by
the Commission on the Truth, all of which are designed to contribute to the
elimination of the existing impunity and consequently to the full
attainment of the rule of law,

"Considering that the international community must follow closely and
continue to support all efforts to consolidate peace, ensure full respect
for human rights and undertake the reconstruction of El Salvador,

"1. Commends the Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo
Martí para la Liberación Nacional for having fulfilled many of their
commitments and for having overcome a number of obstacles to the
application of the agreements;

"2. Regrets none the less that there have been considerable delays in
the implementation of some agreements, and therefore calls on the
Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Martí para la Liberación
Nacional to step up their efforts to complete as agreed, by the proposed
dates, the programme for the transfer of land, the reintegration programme
for ex-combatants, the deployment of the National Civil Police and the
phasing-out of the National Police, as well as the collection of weapons
issued for the exclusive use of personnel of the Armed Forces and the
adoption of the Act on Private Security Services;

"3. Condemns the recent acts of political violence, which have been
repudiated by the various sectors of Salvadorian society, and considers it
inadmissible that such acts, perpetrated by a small minority, should
jeopardize the progress made in implementing the agreements and hamper the
holding of free elections in March 1994;

"4. Fully supports the immediate conduct of a complete, effective and
impartial investigation of illegal armed groups, as recommended by the
Commission on the Truth, which has become urgent in view of the recent acts
of political violence;

"5. Notes with satisfaction the statement of 5 November 1993,
entitled ’Commitment of the presidential candidates to peace and stability
in El Salvador’, in which the candidates inter alia solemnly committed
themselves to maintain the constructive evolution of the peace process and
to implement all the commitments contained in the Peace Accords and
rejected any politically motivated violence or intimidation;

"6. Calls upon all Governments to contribute to the consolidation of
peace and the attainment of full respect for human rights in El Salvador by
supporting full compliance with the Peace Accords and generously financing

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 23

their implementation and the implementation of the National Reconstruction
Plan;

"7. Reiterates it gratitude for the important work being carried out
by the Secretary-General and his representatives and by the United Nations
Observer Mission in El Salvador, and extends to them its support so that
they can continue to take all necessary steps to contribute to the
successful implementation of the Peace Accords;

"8. Acknowledges with satisfaction the continuing efforts of the
Governments of Colombia, Mexico, Spain and Venezuela, which make up the
Group of Friends of the Secretary-General, as well as the Government of the
United States of America, in support of the steps being taken by the
Secretary-General to consolidate the peace process in El Salvador;

"9. Notes that the human rights situation in El Salvador continues to
evolve in a somewhat ambivalent fashion, since, on the one hand, there
continue to be signs of improvement and, on the other hand, serious
violations persist, particularly as regards the right to life, and the
capacity of the judicial system to clarify and punish such violations
continues to be unsatisfactory;

"10. Urges the Government of El Salvador and all other institutions
involved in the electoral process to adopt the necessary measures to ensure
that the elections which are to take place in March 1994 are free,
representative and fair, since they are a key component of the peace
process;

"11. Decides to keep the situation of human rights in El Salvador
under consideration during its forty-ninth session in the light of the
course of events in the country."

41. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico made a statement (see
A/C.3/48/SR.53).

42. At its 54th meeting, on 8 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/48/L.68/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.3/48/L.68, now joined by Canada, Hungary, Nicaragua and Panama.

43. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico orally revised the
revised draft resolution, as follows:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the words "the country" were
replaced by the words "El Salvador";

(b) In the eleventh preambular paragraph, the words "a number of" before
the word "reforms" and the words "all of" before the word "which" were deleted.

44. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.68/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 67, draft
resolution VIII).

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 24

I. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.70

45. At the 51st meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Sweden, on behalf
of Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile,
Costa Rica, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway,
Panama, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation
of human rights in Myanmar" (A/C.3/48/L.70). Subsequently, Lithuania joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

46. At the 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the representatives of Myanmar and the
United States of America made statements (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

47. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.70
without a vote (see para. 67, draft resolution IX).

48. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Japan
made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

J. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.72

49. At the 51st meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Venezuela, on
behalf of Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados,
Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Portugal,
San Marino, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Uruguay,
Vanuatu and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights in
Haiti" (A/C.3/48/L.72). Subsequently, Andorra, Belize, Cambodia and Honduras
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

50. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Venezuela orally
revised it by adding a new tenth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Deeply concerned by the increase in acts of violence and intimidation
against the Government of Haiti, especially the assassination of the
Minister of Justice, François Guy Malary, which have contributed to the
temporary withdrawal of the International Civilian Mission".

51. At the 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the representatives of Venezuela,
Egypt, Yemen, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the Syrian Arab Republic made
statements (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

52. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.72,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 67, draft resolution X).

53. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Haiti
made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 25

K. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.73

54. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the Chairman introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Afghanistan" (A/C.3/48/L.73).

55. In introducing the draft resolution, the Chairman orally revised operative
paragraph 10 by replacing the words "as well as for the tracing" by the words
"and also in particular for the tracing".

56. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.73, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 67, draft
resolution XI).

57. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of
Afghanistan made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

L. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.74 and Rev.1

58. At the 51st meeting, on 3 December, the representative of the United States
of America, on behalf of Georgia and the United States of America, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)"
(A/C.3/48/L.74), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 36/ the
International Covenants on Human Rights, 37/ the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 38/
the Convention on the Rights of the Child, 39/ the Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, 40/ the Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punishment 41/ and other instruments of international humanitarian law,
including the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 for the Protection of

36/ Resolution 217 A (III).

37/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

38/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

39/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

40/ Resolution 260 A (III).

41/ Resolution 39/46, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 26

War Victims 42/ and the Additional Protocols thereto of 1977, 43/ as
well as the principles and commitments undertaken by States members of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe,

"Gravely concerned at the human tragedy in the territories of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro) and at the continuing massive and systematic violations of
human rights occurring in most of those areas, particularly in the areas of
Bosnia and Herzegovina under Bosnian Serb control,

"Recalling its resolution 47/147 of 18 December 1992, Commission on
Human Rights resolutions 1992/S-1/1, 1992/S-2/1 and 1993/7, and relevant
resolutions of the Security Council,

"Recalling specifically Security Council resolutions 771 (1992) of
13 August 1992, 780 (1992) of 6 October 1992, 787 (1992) of
16 November 1992, 808 (1993) of 22 February 1993 and 827 (1993) of
25 May 1993 in which the Council demanded, inter alia, that all parties and
others concerned in the former Yugoslavia immediately cease and desist from
all breaches of international humanitarian law, requested the Secretary-
General to establish a commission of experts to examine and analyse
information relating to serious violations of such law being committed in
the territory of the former Yugoslavia, and established an international
tribunal for the prosecution of persons responsible for such violations,

"Welcoming the convening of the International Tribunal and the naming
of its Special Prosecutor,

"Welcoming also Security Council resolutions 824 (1993) and 836 (1993)
in which the Council declared that Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zepa, Gorazde, Bihac,
Srebrenica and their surroundings should be treated as safe areas and that
international humanitarian agencies should be given free and unimpeded
access to these areas,

"Welcoming further the interim report 44/ and recommendations of
the Special Rapporteur,

"Expressing appreciation to all States that have cooperated with the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,

"Recalling its resolution 47/80 of 16 December 1992, in which it
condemned unreservedly ’ethnic cleansing’ and acts of violence arising from
racial hatred, and reiterated its conviction that those who committed or
ordered the commission of acts of ’ethnic cleansing’ were individually
responsible and should be brought to justice, and noting General Assembly

42/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

43/ Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

44/ S/26469.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 27

resolution 47/121 of 18 December 1992, in which the Assembly, inter alia,
stated that the abhorrent policy of ’ethnic cleansing’ was a form of
genocide,

"Noting with appreciation the efforts of the Special Rapporteur, as
well as those of the Chairman of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention,
the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions,
the Special Rapporteur on the question of torture and the representative of
the Secretary-General on internally displaced persons, who accompanied him
on his missions,

"Encouraging the continuing efforts made in the framework of the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia to find a peaceful
solution,

"Welcoming the ongoing efforts of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe to re-establish its presence in the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) in order to prevent further human
rights violations, and deeply concerned about the decision of the
authorities in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)
to expel the monitoring missions of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe and the European Community of long duration to
Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina, where the human rights situation remains a
cause of great concern,

"Gravely concerned at the human rights situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro), and in particular at the continuing, odious practice of
’ethnic cleansing’, which is the direct cause of the vast majority of human
rights violations there and whose principal victims are the Muslim
population threatened with virtual extermination,

"Noting the discriminatory policies, measures, and violent actions
committed against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo,

"Strongly rejecting policies and ideologies aimed at ’ethnic
cleansing’ and at promoting racial and religious hatred in any form,

"Alarmed that, although the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not
a religious conflict, it has been characterized by the systematic
destruction and profanation of mosques, churches and other places of
worship, as well as other sites of cultural heritage, in particular in
areas currently or previously under Bosnian Serb and Bosnian Croat control,

"1. Commends the Special Rapporteur for his reports 45/ on the
situation of human rights in the territories of the successor States of the
former Yugoslavia;

45/ S/26383, S/26415, S/26469.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 28

"2. Expresses its grave concern at the Special Rapporteur’s detailed
reports of violations of human rights and humanitarian law and his
conclusions about the impending humanitarian disaster in Bosnia and
Herzegovina this winter;

"3. Condemns in the strongest terms all violations of human rights
and international humanitarian law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) by all sides to
the conflict, in particular the Bosnian Serbs, who have used such tactics
as a matter of policy;

"4. Condemns also the specific violations identified by the Special
Rapporteur, most of which are committed in connection with ’ethnic
cleansing’, and which include killings, torture, beatings, arbitrary
searches, rape, disappearances, destruction of houses and other acts or
threats of violence aimed at forcing individuals to leave their homes, as
well as reports of violations of human rights in connection with detention;

"5. Condemns further the indiscriminate shelling of cities and
civilian areas, the systematic terrorization and murder of non-combatants,
the destruction of vital services, and besieging of cities and the use of
military force against civilian populations and relief operations by all
sides, recognizing that the main responsibility lies with Bosnian Serbs,
who have used such tactics as a matter of policy;

"6. Endorses the determination of the Security Council that all
persons who perpetrate or authorize violations of international
humanitarian law are individually responsible for those breaches and that
the international community shall exert every effort to bring them to
justice;

"7. Urges all States, United Nations bodies, including the
specialized agencies, and the Special Rapporteur and, as appropriate,
international humanitarian organizations, to make available substantiated
information in their possession or submitted to them relating to the
violations and the perpetrators of such violations of international
humanitarian law, including grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions, in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to the International Tribunal established by
Security Council resolution 827 (1993) for prosecution, as appropriate, by
the Chief Prosecutor;

"8. Expresses deep concern at the number of disappearances and
missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro);

"9. Urges that an immediate end be brought to the continuing practice
of ’ethnic cleansing’, and in particular that the authorities of the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) use their influence
with the self-proclaimed Serbian authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and
Croatia to bring the practice of ’ethnic cleansing’ to an immediate end and
to reverse the effects of that practice;

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 29

"10. Reaffirms that States are to be held accountable for violations
of human rights which their agents commit upon their own territory or the
territory of another State;

"11. Expresses its complete support for the victims of these
violations, reaffirms the right of all persons to return to their homes in
safety and dignity, considers invalid all acts made under duress affecting
ownership of property and other related questions, recognizes the right of
victims of ’ethnic cleansing’ to receive just reparation for their losses,
and urges all parties to fulfil their agreements to this end;

"12. Condemns in particular the violations of human rights and
humanitarian law in connection with detention, including killings, torture
and the systematic practice of rape, and urges the immediate,
internationally supervised release of all persons arbitrarily or illegally
detained in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the immediate closure of all
detention facilities not in compliance with the Geneva Conventions of
12 August 1949;

"13. Urges all parties to immediately notify the International
Committee of the Red Cross of the locations of all camps, prisons and other
places of detention within Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and that the International
Committee of the Red Cross, the Special Rapporteur and his staff, the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the monitoring and other
missions of the European Union and the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe and other relevant international and regional
organizations be granted immediate, unimpeded and continued access to such
places of detention;

"14. Expresses its grave concern at the deteriorating human rights
situation in Serbia, particularly in Kosovo, as described in the Report of
the Special Rapporteur, and condemns the violations of human rights
occurring there, including:

"(a) Police brutality against ethnic Albanians, arbitrary searches,
seizures and arrests, torture and ill-treatment during detention and
discrimination in the administration of justice, which leads to a climate
of lawlessness in which criminal acts, particularly against ethnic
Albanians, take place with impunity;

"(b) The discriminatory removal of ethnic Albanian officials,
especially from the police and judiciary, the mass dismissal of ethnic
Albanians from professional, administrative and other skilled positions in
State-owned enterprises and public institutions, including teachers from
the Serb-run school system, and the closure of Albanian high schools and
universities;

"(c) Arbitrary imprisonment of ethnic Albanian journalists, the
closure of Albanian-language mass media and the discriminatory removal of
ethnic Albanian staff from local radio and television stations;

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 30

"(d) Repression by the Serbian police and military;

"15. Strongly condemns the measures and practices of discrimination
and the violations of the human rights of the ethnic Albanians of Kosovo,
as well as the large-scale repression, committed by the Serbian
authorities;

"16. Urges that the authorities in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro):

"(a) Take all necessary measures to bring to an immediate end the
human rights violations inflicted on the Albanian population of Kosovo,
including, in particular, the discriminatory measures and practices, as
well as the summary executions, arbitrary detention and the use of torture
and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment;

"(b) Revoke all discriminatory legislation, in particular that which
has entered into force after 1989;

"(c) Re-establish the democratic institutions of Kosovo, including the
Parliament and the judiciary;

"17. Urges the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to respect the human rights and fundamental
freedoms of ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, and expresses its view that the
best means to safeguard human rights in Kosovo is to restore its autonomy;

"18. Expresses its grave concern at the report by the Special
Rapporteur of violations of human rights occurring in Sandjak and
Vojvodina, particularly acts of physical harassment, abductions, the
burning of homes, warrantless searches, confiscation of property and other
discriminatory practices in favour of the Serbian population, which are
intended to change the ethnic structure of those areas;

"19. Calls upon the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to reconsider their refusal to allow the
continuation of the activities of the missions of the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe in Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina and to
cooperate with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe by
taking the practical steps for the resumption of the activities of these
missions as called for by the Security Council in its resolution 855 (1993)
in order to prevent the extension of the conflict of those areas;

"20. Reaffirms that all parties to the conflict in the territories of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) share the responsibility for finding a peaceful
solution through negotiations under the auspices of the International
Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, and calls upon the parties to
implement immediately all commitments made in the framework of the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia and to reach a just and
durable solution as soon as possible;

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 31

"21. Urges all United Nations bodies, including the United Nations
Protection Force, the United Nations human rights treaty bodies and the
specialized agencies, and Governments and informed intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations to cooperate fully with the Special
Rapporteur, and in particular to provide him on a continuing basis with all
relevant and accurate information in their possession on the situation of
human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro);

"22. Urges all States and relevant organizations to consider
implementation of the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur and his
recent reports, and in particular:

"(a) Welcomes the Special Rapporteur’s call for the opening of
humanitarian relief corridors to prevent the imminent death of tens of
thousands of persons, especially in view of the lack of access to many
areas in the face of the coming winter;

"(b) Supports the Special Rapporteur’s call for the immediate release
of detainees into conditions of safety;

"(c) Draws the attention of the international community to the need
for an effective response to counter the policy of ’ethnic cleansing’
perpetrated by all sides to the conflict, particularly the Bosnian Serb
forces, who have used such tactics as a matter of policy, and Bosnian Croat
forces;

"(d) Supports the request of the Special Rapporteur to the Croatian
authorities to take action against those who have committed human rights
violations and contravened international humanitarian standards in the
Medak Pocket and to take steps to punish those responsible to prevent such
incidents in the future;

"(e) Welcomes the announcement by all parties, after their meeting on
18 November 1993 with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
that they will allow humanitarian convoys to get through, and urges them to
live up to this undertaking;

"23. Urges the Secretary-General to take all necessary steps to ensure
the full and effective coordination of all United Nations bodies to
implement the present resolution, and urges those bodies concerned with the
situation in the territories of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to coordinate
closely with the Special Rapporteur and the Tribunal;

"24. Also urges the Secretary-General, within the overall budgetary
framework of the United Nations, to make all necessary resources available
for the Special Rapporteur to carry out his mandate and in particular to
provide him with adequate staff based in the territories of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro) to ensure effective continuous monitoring of the human rights

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 32

situation there and coordination with other United Nations bodies involved,
including the United Nations Protection Force;

"25. Requests the Secretary-General to give all other necessary
assistance to the Special Rapporteur to enable him to fulfil his mandate;

"26. Calls upon the States concerned to cooperate fully with the
Special Rapporteur in order to enable him to fulfil his mandate;

"27. Recommends that the Chief Prosecutor consider the appointment to
his office of experts in the prosecution of crimes of sexual violence;

"28. Calls upon States to contribute such experts to the Chief
Prosecutor and the Tribunal;

"29. Decides to continue its examination of the situation of human
rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) at its forty-ninth session under the
item entitled ’Human rights questions’."

59. At its 55th meeting, on 8 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/48/L.74/Rev.1), submitted by the United States of
America on behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada,
Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Finland, France,
Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, the Islamic Republic of
Iran, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Marshall
Islands, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain, the
Sudan, Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, the United States of America and Yemen.

60. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee orally corrected the
revised draft resolution, as follows:

(a) The title was revised to read: "Situation of human rights in the
territory of the former Yugoslavia: violations of human rights in the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)";

(b) In operative paragraph 3, the word "Federal" before the word
"Republic" was deleted;

(c) In operative paragraph 17, the word "Serbia" was replaced with the
words "the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)";

(d) In operative paragraph 33, the words "the situation of human rights in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro)" were replaced with the words "this question".

61. The Committee had before it a statement of the programme budget
implications of draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.74/Rev.1, submitted by the

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 33

Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly (A/C.3/48/L.81).

62. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.74/Rev.1, as orally corrected, without a vote (see para. 67, draft
resolution XII).

63. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of
Slovenia, the Russian Federation and the Philippines made statements (see
A/C.3/48/SR.55).

M. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.75

64. At its 51st meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of Australia, Austria, Cambodia, Cameroon, France, Indonesia, Japan, the
Netherlands, the Russian Federation, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Cambodia" (A/C.3/48/L.75).
Subsequently, Canada, New Zealand and Uruguay joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

65. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Australia orally
revised it as follows:

(a) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the words "article 5 of part III of
the Paris Agreements" were replaced by the words "the Paris Agreements";

(b) In operative paragraph 4, the words "from within existing resources"
were inserted after the words "necessary resources".

66. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.75, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 67, draft
resolution XIII).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

67. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Situation of human rights in Cuba

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as stated in the Charter of the

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 34

United Nations and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 46/ the International Covenants on Human Rights 47/ and other
applicable human rights instruments,

Reaffirming also that all Member States have an obligation to fulfil the
commitments they have freely undertaken under the various international
instruments,

Taking particular note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/63 of
10 March 1993, 48/ in which the Commission recognized with deep appreciation
the efforts of the Secretary-General and of the Special Rapporteur to carry out
their mandate concerning the situation of human rights in Cuba,

Noting concern about ongoing reports of serious violations of human rights
in Cuba, as outlined in the interim report on the situation of human rights in
Cuba 49/ presented to the General Assembly by the Special Rapporteur on Cuba,

Recalling the failure of the Government of Cuba to cooperate with the
Commission on Human Rights with regard to its resolution 1992/61 of
3 March 1992 50/ by refusing to permit the Special Representative to visit
Cuba, and its response, as cited in appendix II to the 1993 interim report of
the Special Rapporteur, 49/ in which Cuba stated "we emphatically reject
resolution 1992/61 and, accordingly, we cannot cooperate in its implementation
in any way",

1. Commends the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights for
his interim report on the situation of human rights in Cuba; 49/

2. Expresses its full support for the work of the Special Rapporteur on
Cuba;

3. Calls upon the Government of Cuba to cooperate fully with the Special
Rapporteur on Cuba by permitting him full and free access to establish contact
with the Government and the citizens of Cuba so that he may fulfil the mandate
entrusted to him;

4. Regrets profoundly the numerous uncontested reports of violations of
basic human rights and fundamental freedoms that are described in the report of

46/ Resolution 217 A (III).

47/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

48/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993,
Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

49/ A/48/562.

50/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 35

the Special Rapporteur to the Commission on Human Rights 51/ and in his
interim report; 49/

5. Calls upon the Government of Cuba to adopt measures proposed by the
Special Rapporteur to ratify international human rights instruments; to cease
the persecution and punishment of citizens for reasons related to freedom of
expression and peaceful association; to permit legalization of independent
groups; to respect guarantees of due process; to permit access to the prisons by
national independent groups and international humanitarian agencies; to review
sentences for crimes of a political nature; and to cease retaliatory measures
towards those seeking permission to leave the country;

6. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Rape and abuse of women in the areas of armed
conflict in the former Yugoslavia

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 52/ the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 53/ the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, 54/ the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, 55/ the Convention against Torture and
Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, 56/ the Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 57/ the
Convention on the Rights of the Child 58/ and other instruments of

51/ E/CN.4/1993/39.

52/ Resolution 217 A (III).

53/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

54/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

55/ Resolution 260 A (III).

56/ Resolution 39/46, annex.

57/ Resolution 34/180, annex.

58/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 36

international humanitarian law, including the Geneva Conventions of
12 August 1949 59/ and the Additional Protocols thereto of 1977, 60/

Recalling its resolution 3074 (XXVIII) of 3 December 1973, entitled
"Principles of international cooperation in the detection, arrest, extradition
and punishment of persons guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity",

Recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/8 of 23 February 1993,
entitled "Rape and abuse of women in the territory of the former Yugoslavia",

Appalled at the recurring and substantiated reports of widespread rape and
abuse of women and children in the areas of armed conflict in the former
Yugoslavia, in particular its systematic use against the Muslim women and
children in Bosnia and Herzegovina by Serbian forces,

Reaffirming the relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular
resolution 798 (1992) of 18 December 1992 in which, inter alia, the Council
strongly condemned those acts of unspeakable brutality,

Convinced that this heinous practice constitutes a deliberate weapon of war
in fulfilling the policy of ethnic cleansing carried out by Serbian forces in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and noting General Assembly resolution 47/121 of
18 December 1992, in which the Assembly stated, inter alia, that the abhorrent
policy of ethnic cleansing was a form of genocide,

Welcoming the initiatives taken by the Special Rapporteur on the situation
of human rights in the former Yugoslavia, particularly his prompt dispatch of a
team of experts to the former Yugoslavia to investigate the allegations of rape
and abuse of women,

Welcoming also the initiative of the European Council on the rapid dispatch
of a mission to investigate the treatment of Muslim women in the former
Yugoslavia, and the delegation’s report, 61/

Noting with deep concern the findings of the team of experts dispatched by
the Special Rapporteur, 62/ and those of the mission dispatched by the
European Council,

Welcoming the establishment of an International Tribunal for the
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1992,
in pursuance of Security Council resolutions 808 (1993) of 22 February 1993 and
827 (1993) of 25 May 1993,

59/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

60/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1125, No. 17512.

61/ E/CN.4/1993/92.

62/ E/CN.4/1993/50, annex II.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 37

Noting with deep concern the reports on the findings of the Special
Rapporteur 63/ and the Secretary-General, assisted by the staff of the
Special Rapporteur, 64/ regarding rape and abuse of women in the territory of
the former Yugoslavia, particularly Bosnia and Herzegovina,

Deeply alarmed at the situation facing victims of rape in the conflicts in
different parts of the world, in particular in the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and the continuing use of rape as a weapon of war,

Desirous of ensuring that persons accused of upholding and perpetrating
rape and sexual violence as a weapon of war in the areas of armed conflict in
the former Yugoslavia will be brought to justice by the International Tribunal
where appropriate,

Recognizing the extraordinary suffering of the victims of rape and sexual
violence and the necessity for an appropriate response to provide assistance to
those victims,

Taking into account resolution 37/7 of 25 March 1993 of the Commission on
the Status of Women,

Noting with appreciation the work of humanitarian organizations aimed at
supporting the victims of rape and abuse and alleviating their suffering,

1. Strongly condemns the abhorrent practice of rape and abuse of women
and children in the areas of armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia which
constitutes a war crime;

2. Expresses its outrage that the systematic practice of rape is being
used as a weapon of war and an instrument of ethnic cleansing against the women
and children in the areas of armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia, in
particular against Muslim women and children in Bosnia and Herzegovina;

3. Demands that those involved immediately cease those outrageous acts,
which are in gross violation of international humanitarian law, including the
Geneva Conventions of 1949 59/ and the Additional Protocols thereto of 1977, 60/
and take immediate action to ensure the enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in accordance with their obligations under those
instruments and other applicable international human rights instruments;

4. Urges all States Members of the United Nations to take joint and
separate action, in cooperation with the United Nations, to bring about an end
to that despicable practice;

5. Reaffirms that all persons who perpetrate or authorize crimes against
humanity and other violations of international humanitarian law are individually
responsible for those violations, and that those in positions of authority who

63/ E/CN.4/1994/47.

64/ E/CN.4/1994/5.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 38

have failed adequately to ensure that persons under their control comply with
the relevant international instruments are accountable together with the
perpetrators;

6. Urges States Members of the United Nations to exert every effort to
bring to justice, in accordance with international recognized principles of due
process, all those individuals directly or indirectly involved in those
outrageous international crimes;

7. Commends the Special Rapporteur for his report on the situation of
human rights in the territory of the former Yugoslavia; 63/

8. Urges all States and all relevant intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations, including the United Nations Children’s Fund,
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the World
Health Organization, to provide to the victims of such rape and abuse
appropriate assistance for their physical and mental rehabilitation;

9. Invites the Commission on Human Rights to request the Special
Rapporteur to continue investigation into the rape and abuse of women and
children in the areas of armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia, in particular
in Bosnia and Herzegovina;

10. Declares that rape is a heinous crime and encourages the International
Tribunal to give due priority to the cases of the victims of rape in the areas
of armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia, in particular in the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to provide such necessary means as are
available to him in the area to enable any future missions to have free and
secure access to places of detention;

12. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly not later than
31 January 1994;

13. Decides to continue the consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 39

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Situation of human rights in Iraq

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 65/ and the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 66/

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations they
have undertaken under the various international instruments in this field,

Mindful that Iraq is a party to the International Covenants on Human
Rights,

Recalling its resolution 47/145 of 18 December 1992, in which it expressed
its deep concern at flagrant violations of human rights by the Government of
Iraq,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 688 (1991) of 5 April 1991, in
which the Council demanded an end to the repression of the Iraqi civilian
population and insisted that Iraq cooperate with humanitarian organizations and
ensure that the human and political rights of all Iraqi citizens are respected,

Recalling in particular Commission on Human Rights resolution 1991/74 of
6 March 1991, by which the Commission requested its Chairman to appoint a
special rapporteur to make a thorough study of the violations of human rights by
the Government of Iraq, based on all information the Special Rapporteur might
deem relevant, including information provided by intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations and any comments and material provided by the
Government of Iraq,

Recalling the pertinent resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights
condemning the flagrant violations of human rights by the Government of Iraq,
including its most recent resolution, 1993/74 of 10 March 1993, by which the
Commission extended the mandate of the Special Rapporteur for a further year and
asked him to submit an interim report to the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session and a final report to the Commission at its fiftieth
session,

Recalling also Security Council resolutions 687 (1991) of 3 April 1991,
706 (1991) of 15 August 1991, 712 (1991) of 19 September 1991 and 778 (1992) of
2 October 1992,

65/ Resolution 217 A (III).

66/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 40

Deeply concerned by the massive and grave violations of human rights by the
Government of Iraq, such as summary and arbitrary executions, torture and other
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, enforced or involuntary disappearances,
arbitrary arrests and detention, lack of due process and the rule of law and of
freedom of thought, of expression, of association and of access to food and
health care,

Deeply concerned also at the fact that chemical weapons have been used on
the Iraqi civilian population, by the forced displacement of hundreds of
thousands of Iraqi civilians and by the destruction of Iraqi towns and villages,
as well as by the fact that tens of thousands of displaced Kurds have had to
take refuge in camps and shelters in the north of Iraq,

Deeply concerned further at the increasingly severe and grave violations of
human rights by the Government of Iraq against the civilian population in
southern Iraq, in particular in the southern marshes, many of whom have sought
refuge on the border between Iraq and the Islamic Republic of Iran,

Expressing concern, in particular, at the fact that there are no signs of
improvement in the general situation of human rights in Iraq, and, therefore,
welcoming the decision to deploy a team of human rights monitors to such
locations as would facilitate improved information flows and assessment and
would help in the independent verification of reports on the situation of human
rights in Iraq,

Regretting that the Government of Iraq has not seen fit to respond to
requests for a visit of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights
in Iraq and noting that, despite the formal cooperation extended to the Special
Rapporteur by the Government of Iraq, such cooperation needs to be substantially
improved, in particular by giving full replies to the inquiries of the Special
Rapporteur about acts being committed by the Government of Iraq that are
incompatible with the international human rights instruments that are binding on
that country,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the interim report on the situation of
human rights in Iraq 67/ submitted by the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights and the observations, conclusions and recommendations
contained therein;

2. Expresses its strong condemnation of the massive violations of human
rights of the gravest nature, for which the Government of Iraq is responsible
and to which the Special Rapporteur has referred in his recent reports, in
particular:

(a) Summary and arbitrary executions, orchestrated mass executions and
burials, extrajudicial killings, including political killings, in particular in
the northern region of Iraq, in southern Shiah centres and in the southern
marshes;

67/ A/48/600.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 41

(b) The widespread routine practice of systematic torture in its most
cruel forms;

(c) Enforced or involuntary disappearances, routinely practised arbitrary
arrest and detention, including arrest and detention of women, the elderly and
children, and consistent and routine failure to respect due process and the rule
of law;

(d) Suppression of freedom of thought, expression and association and
violations of property rights;

(e) The unwillingness of the Government of Iraq to honour its
responsibilities in respect of the economic rights of the population;

3. Deplores Iraq’s refusal to cooperate in the implementation of Security
Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991) and its failure to provide the
Iraqi population with access to adequate food and health care;

4. Calls upon the Government of Iraq to release immediately all persons
arbitrarily arrested and detained, including Kuwaitis and nationals of other
States;

5. Calls once again upon Iraq, as a State party to the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and to the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to abide by its obligations freely
undertaken under the Covenants and under other international instruments on
human rights and, particularly, to respect and ensure the rights of all
individuals irrespective of their origin within its territory and subject to its
jurisdiction;

6. Recognizes the importance of the work of the United Nations in
providing humanitarian relief to the people of Iraq, and calls upon Iraq to
allow unhindered access of the United Nations humanitarian agencies throughout
the country, including ensuring the safety of United Nations personnel and
humanitarian workers, inter alia through the continued implementation of the
Memorandum of Understanding signed by the United Nations and the Government of
Iraq;

7. Expresses special alarm at the repressive practices directed against
the Kurds, which continue to have an impact on the lives of the Iraqi people as
a whole;

8. Also expresses special alarm at the resurgence of grave violations of
human rights in southern Iraq, which is the result of a preconceived policy
against the marsh Arabs in particular, many of whom have sought refuge outside
the country;

9. Welcomes the sending of human rights monitors to the border between
Iraq and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and calls upon the Government of Iraq to
allow immediate and unconditional stationing of human rights monitors throughout
the country, especially the southern marsh area;

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 42

10. Further expresses its special alarm at all internal embargoes, which
permit essentially no exceptions for humanitarian needs and which prevent the
equitable enjoyment of basic foodstuffs and medical supplies, and calls upon the
Government of Iraq, which has sole responsibility in this regard, to remove them
and to take steps to cooperate with international humanitarian agencies in the
provision of relief to those in need throughout Iraq;

11. Urges once more the Government of Iraq to set up an independent
commission of inquiry to look into the fate of tens of thousands of persons who
have disappeared;

12. Regrets the failure of the Government of Iraq to provide satisfactory
replies concerning the violations of human rights brought to the attention of
the Special Rapporteur, and calls upon the Government fully to cooperate and to
reply without delay in a comprehensive and detailed manner so as to enable the
Special Rapporteur to formulate the appropriate recommendations to improve the
situation of human rights in Iraq;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with
all necessary assistance in carrying out his mandate;

14. Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights
in Iraq during its forty-ninth session under the item entitled "Human rights
questions" in the light of additional elements provided by the Commission on
Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 68/ and the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 69/

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations they
have undertaken under the various international instruments in this field,

Recalling its relevant resolutions, including the most recent, resolution
47/146 of 18 December 1992, as well as those of the Commission on Human Rights,
including the most recent, resolution 1993/62 of 10 March 1993, and those of the
Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities,
including the most recent, resolution 1993/14 of 20 August 1993,

68/ Resolution 217 A (III).

69/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 43

Noting that the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has responded to
the request of the Special Representative of the Commission on Human Rights for
information concerning allegations of human rights violations in that country
but did not allow him to pay a fourth visit to the country so that he might
obtain direct and first-hand information on the current human rights situation
there,

Reaffirming that Governments are accountable for assassinations and attacks
by their agents against persons on the territory of another State, as well as
for the incitement, approval or wilful condoning of such acts,

Noting the observation of the Special Representative that there is enough
evidence to show that it is entirely proper for the human rights situation in
the Islamic Republic of Iran to remain under international scrutiny,

Noting also that the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities, in its resolution 1993/14, has condemned the
continuing flagrant violations of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran,

Noting further the concluding observations of the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the Human Rights Committee and the
Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on the human rights situation
in the Islamic Republic of Iran,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the interim report of the Special
Representative of the Commission on Human Rights 70/ and the considerations
and observations contained therein;

2. Expresses its deep concern at continuing reports of violations of
human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran;

3. Expresses its concern more specifically at the main criticisms of the
Special Representative with regard to the human rights situation in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, namely, the high number of executions, cases of torture and
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the standard of the
administration of justice, the absence of guarantees of due process of law,
discriminatory treatment of certain groups of citizens for reason of their
religious beliefs, notably the Baha’is, whose existence as a viable religious
community is threatened, and restrictions on the freedom of expression, thought,
opinion and the press, and that, as noted by the Special Representative, there
is continued discrimination against women;

4. Expresses its grave concern at the continued use of the death penalty,
which the Special Representative has described as excessive;

5. Also expresses its grave concern that there are continuing threats to
the life of a citizen of another State which appear to have the support of the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and whose case is mentioned in the

70/ A/48/526.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 44

report of the Special Representative, as well as to individuals associated with
his work;

6. Urges the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to refrain from
activities such as those mentioned in the report of the Special Representative
against members of the Iranian opposition living abroad;

7. Regrets that the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has still
not permitted the Special Representative to visit the country in order to enable
him fully to discharge his mandate by according him full cooperation;

8. Urges the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to implement
existing agreements with international humanitarian organizations;

9. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to intensify
its efforts to investigate and rectify the human rights issues raised by the
Special Representative in his considerations and observations, in particular as
regards the administration of justice and due process of law;

10. Also calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
comply with international instruments on human rights, in particular the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 71/ to which the
Islamic Republic of Iran is a party, and to ensure that all individuals within
its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups, enjoy
the rights recognized in those instruments;

11. Endorses the view of the Special Representative that the international
monitoring of the human rights situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran should
be continued;

12. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate
fully with the Special Representative;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the
Special Representative;

14. Decides to continue the examination of the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran including the situation of minority groups, such
as the Baha’is, during its forty-ninth session, under the item entitled "Human
rights questions" in the light of additional elements provided by the Commission
on Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council.

71/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 45

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Situation of human rights in Somalia

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
International Bill of Human Rights 72/ and other applicable human rights
instruments,

Gravely concerned by the situation in Somalia, including the extensive
damage and destruction of villages, towns and cities, the heavy damage inflicted
by the civil conflict on the country’s infrastructure and the still widespread
disruption of many public facilities and services and the lack of a governmental
authority to ensure even basic human rights,

Deploring the loss of human life in Somalia, and attacks against United
Nations personnel and personnel of other humanitarian organizations in Somalia,
sometimes resulting in serious injuries or deaths,

Recalling Security Council resolution 733 (1992) of 21 January 1992 and all
subsequent relevant Security Council resolutions, General Assembly resolution
47/167 of 18 December 1992, and Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/86 of
10 March 1993,

Commending the ongoing efforts in Somalia of the United Nations, the
specialized agencies of the United Nations system, humanitarian organizations,
non-governmental organizations, countries in the region and regional
organizations,

Noting with appreciation the report of the Independent Expert dated
26 October 1993, 73/

1. Commends the Independent Expert for his report on the situation of
human rights in Somalia, in which he cited an increase in human rights
violations fuelled by the absence of an accountable government and the lack of
infrastructure;

2. Urges all Somali parties in the conflict to confirm their commitment
to the Addis Ababa agreement of 27 March 1993;

3. Also urges all Somalis to work together towards peace and security in
Somalia and to guarantee the protection of all human rights and fundamental
freedoms for all Somalis;

4. Calls upon all parties to protect civilians, United Nations personnel
and humanitarian relief workers from being killed, tortured or arbitrarily
detained;

72/ See resolutions 217 A (III) and 2200 A (XXI), annex.

73/ A/48/510.



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 46

5. Requests that, following the restoration of political stability and
security in Somalia, the Commission on Human Rights, in accordance with the
Charter of the United Nations, consider establishing a group of independent
human rights monitors, funded from within existing United Nations resources, to
receive complaints and collect and investigate reports of violations of human
rights and to transmit them, where appropriate, to the United Nations Centre for
Human Rights, in an effort to prevent human rights violations;

6. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Situation of human rights in the Sudan

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 74/ the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 75/ and the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, 76/

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to comply with the obligations
laid down in the various instruments in this field,

Recalling resolution AHG/Res.213 (XXVIII) on the strengthening of
cooperation and coordination among African States, adopted by the Assembly of
Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its
twenty-eighth ordinary session, held at Dakar from 29 June to
1 July 1992, 77/ and recalling the Addis Ababa agreement of July 1990, 78/

Noting with deep concern reports of grave human rights violations in the
Sudan, particularly summary executions, detentions without trial, forced
displacement of persons and torture, described in part in the reports submitted
to the Commission on Human Rights at its forty-ninth session by the Special
Rapporteurs on torture and on summary or arbitrary executions,

Disturbed by the failure of the Government to provide for a full impartial
investigation of the killings of Sudanese nationals employees of foreign

74/ Resolution 217 A (III), annex.

75/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

76/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

77/ See A/47/558, annex II.

78/ See A/45/482, annex II.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 47

government relief organizations, despite the announcement by the Government of
the Sudan of its intention to convene an independent judicial inquiry
commission,

Concerned over the reported attack on 12 November 1992 by aeroplanes of the
Government of the Sudan on an airstrip in Thiet that resulted in injuries to
three relief workers, and further concerned by the reported bombing of civilian
areas in Loa and Pageri that may have resulted in deaths or injuries,

Deeply concerned that access by the civilian population to humanitarian
assistance is being impeded, which represents a threat to human life and an
offence to human dignity, but welcoming the continuing dialogue between the
Government of the Sudan and other parties, donor Governments and international
private voluntary agencies regarding delivery of humanitarian aid, and
expressing the hope that such dialogue will result in improved cooperation for
the delivery of humanitarian assistance,

Alarmed by the large number of internally displaced persons and victims of
discrimination in the Sudan, including members of minorities who have been
forcibly displaced in violation of their human rights and who are in need of
relief assistance and of protection,

Alarmed also by the mass exodus of refugees into neighbouring countries,
and conscious of the burden that this places on those countries, but expressing
its appreciation for the continuing efforts to assist them, thereby easing the
burden on host countries,

Emphasizing that it is essential to put an end to the serious deterioration
of the human rights situation in the Sudan, including that in the Nuba
Mountains,

Recognizing the fact that the Sudan has been hosting large numbers of
refugees from several neighbouring countries over the last three decades,

Welcoming the efforts of the United Nations and other humanitarian
organizations to provide humanitarian relief to those Sudanese in need,

Noting with appreciation the efforts of the Special Rapporteur, and
commending him for his interim report on the human rights situation in the
Sudan, 79/

1. Expresses its deep concern at the continuing and serious human rights
violations in the Sudan, including summary executions, detentions without due
process, forced displacement of persons and torture;

2. Takes note of paragraph 24 of the report of the Special Rapporteur for
the Sudan in which he stated that the Government of the Sudan had cooperated
with the Special Rapporteur by arranging the meetings he had requested and
further facilitated visits to the locations he had wished to see;

79/ A/48/601, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 48

3. Notes with concern the reprisals taken by the Government of the Sudan
against those who contacted or attempted to contact the Special Rapporteur for
the Sudan;

4. Urges the Government of the Sudan to respect fully human rights, and
calls upon all parties to cooperate in order to ensure such respect;

5. Calls upon the Government of the Sudan to comply with applicable
international human rights instruments, in particular the International
Covenants on Human Rights 75/ and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Racial Discrimination, 76/ to which the Sudan is a party, and to ensure that
all individuals in its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, including
members of all religious and ethnic groups, enjoy the rights recognized in those
instruments;

6. Calls upon all parties to the hostilities to respect fully the
applicable provisions of international humanitarian law including article 3
common to the Geneva Conventions of 1949, 80/ and the Additional Protocols
thereto of 1977, 81/ to halt the use of weapons against the civilian
population, to protect all civilians from violations, including arbitrary
detention, ill-treatment, torture and summary execution;

7. Expresses its appreciation to the humanitarian organizations for their
work in helping displaced persons and drought and conflict victims in the Sudan,
and calls upon all parties to protect humanitarian relief workers;

8. Calls upon the Special Rapporteur on summary or arbitrary executions
again to address the killing of Sudanese national employees of foreign
government relief organizations;

9. Calls upon the Government of the Sudan to explain fully the actions to
obstruct the efforts of the Special Rapporteur for the Sudan, especially the
ill-treatment afforded those who contacted or attempted to contact him;

10. Also calls upon the Government of the Sudan to ensure a full, thorough
and prompt investigation by the independent judicial inquiry commission of the
killings of Sudanese nationals employees of foreign government relief
organizations, to bring to justice those responsible for the killings and to
provide just compensation to the families of the victims;

11. Further calls upon the Government of the Sudan to investigate and
explain without delay the circumstances behind the air attacks on 12 and
23 November 1993;

12. Strongly urges all parties to the hostilities to redouble their
efforts to negotiate an equitable solution to the civil conflict to ensure
respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the Sudanese people,

80/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

81/ Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 49

thereby creating the necessary conditions to end the exodus of Sudanese refugees
to neighbouring countries and facilitating their early return to the Sudan, and
welcomes efforts to facilitate dialogue among the parties to that end;

13. Notes with appreciation, in this connection, the current regional
efforts of the heads of State of the Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and
Development (Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia and Eritrea) to assist parties to the
conflict in the Sudan to reach a peaceful settlement;

14. Calls upon the Government of the Sudan and other parties to permit
international agencies, humanitarian organizations and donor Governments to
deliver humanitarian assistance to the civilian population and to cooperate with
the recent initiatives of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs of the
Secretariat to deliver humanitarian assistance to all persons in need;

15. Recommends that the serious human rights situation in the Sudan be
monitored, and invites the Commission on Human Rights at its fiftieth session to
give urgent attention to the situation of human rights in the Sudan;

16. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

International Convention on the Protection of the Rights
of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming once more the permanent validity of the principles and
standards set forth in the basic instruments regarding the international
protection of human rights, in particular in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 82/ the International Covenants of Human Rights, 83/ the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination, 84/ the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women 85/ and the Convention on the Rights of the
Child, 86/

82/ Resolution 217 A (III).

83/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

84/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

85/ Resolution 34/180, annex.

86/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 50

Bearing in mind the principles and standards established within the
framework of the International Labour Organization and the importance of the
task carried out in connection with migrant workers and members of their
families in other specialized agencies and in various organs of the United
Nations,

Reiterating that, in spite of the existence of an already established body
of principles and standards, there is a need to make further efforts to improve
the situation and to ensure the human rights and dignity of all migrant workers
and members of their families,

Aware of the situation of migrant workers and members of their families and
the marked increase in migratory movements that has occurred, especially in
certain parts of the world,

Considering that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by
the World Conference on Human Rights held at Vienna from 14 to
25 June 1993, 87/ urged all States to guarantee the protection of the human
rights of all migrant workers and their families,

Underlining the importance of the creation of conditions to foster greater
harmony and tolerance between migrant workers and the rest of the society of the
State in which they reside,

Recalling its resolution 45/158 of 18 December 1990, by which it adopted
and opened for signature, ratification and accession the International
Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of
Their Families,

Bearing in mind that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action invite
States to consider the possibility of signing and ratifying the Convention at
the earliest possible time,

Taking into account the invitation made in the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action,

Recalling that the General Assembly, in its resolution 47/110 of
16 December 1992, requested the Secretary-General to submit to the Assembly at
its forty-eighth session a report on the status of the Convention,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General 88/ on the status
of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant
Workers and Members of Their Families;

2. Welcomes the signature, ratification or accession by some Member
States to the Convention;

87/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

88/ A/48/471.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 51

3. Calls upon all Member States to consider signing and ratifying or
acceding to the Convention as a matter of priority, and expresses the hope that
it will enter into force at an early date;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all facilities and
assistance necessary for the promotion of the Convention, through the World
Public Information Campaign on Human Rights and the programme of advisory
services in the field of human rights;

5. Invites the organizations and agencies of the United Nations system
and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to intensify their
efforts with a view to disseminating information on and promoting understanding
of the Convention;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session a report on the status of the Convention;

7. Decides to consider the report of the Secretary-General at its
forty-ninth session under the sub-item entitled "Implementation of human rights
instruments".

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Situation of human rights in El Salvador

The General Assembly,

Guided by the international human rights instruments,

Recalling its resolution 47/140 of 18 December 1992, as well as Commission
on Human Rights resolution 1993/93 of 10 March 1993 89/ and the statement of
20 August 1993 by the Chairman of the Subcommission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities on support for the peace process in
El Salvador and also Security Council resolution 888 (1993) of 30 November 1993,

Taking into account the reports of the Secretary-General and the Director
of the Human Rights Division of the United Nations Observer Mission in
El Salvador,

Convinced that full and speedy implementation of the outstanding
commitments of the Peace Accords is necessary in order to guarantee full respect
for human rights and the consolidation of the reconciliation and democratization
process under way in El Salvador,

Welcoming the fact that most of the agreements have already been put into
effect by the Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Martí para la
Liberación Nacional,

89/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993,
Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 52

Concerned none the less that problems persist and that there are continuing
delays in the implementation of several important Peace Agreements referred to
in Security Council resolution 832 (1993) of 27 May 1993, and that there have
also been some irregularities in the implementation of the agreements relating
to public security,

Noting with concern the recent acts of violence in El Salvador, which may
indicate renewed activity by illegal armed groups, and could, if unchecked,
negatively affect the peace process in El Salvador including the elections
scheduled for March 1994,

Noting also with concern the seemingly politically motivated murders of and
threats against members of the different political parties, including the Frente
Farabundo Martí para la Liberación Nacional and the Alianza Republicana
Nacionalista,

Welcoming in this regard the efforts of the Secretary-General in
cooperation with the Government of El Salvador towards the establishment of a
mechanism to investigate illegal armed groups and their possible connection with
renewed political violence,

Noting that El Salvador has entered a decisive phase in the peace process
and that political parties have just begun a campaign for the elections to be
held in March 1994, which should take place in a peaceful environment,

Taking note of the importance of having adopted reforms of the judicial
system, as well as of the need to adopt both the reforms which are in the
process of being approved and the reforms recommended by the Commission on the
Truth, which are designed to contribute to the elimination of the existing
impunity and consequently to the full attainment of the rule of law,

Recalling the role that the Office of the National Counsel for the Defence
of Human Rights is called upon to play in the promotion and protection of human
rights,

Considering that the international community must follow closely and
continue to support all efforts to consolidate peace, ensure full respect for
human rights and undertake the reconstruction of El Salvador,

1. Commends the Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Martí
para la Liberación Nacional for having fulfilled most of their commitments and
for having overcome a number of obstacles to the implementation of the
agreements;

2. Expresses its concern that there are important elements of the
agreements that have been only partially implemented, and therefore calls upon
the Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Martí para la Liberación
Nacional to step up their efforts to complete as agreed, by the proposed dates,
the programme for the transfer of land, the reintegration programme for
ex-combatants, the deployment of the National Civil Police and the phasing-out
of the National Police, as well as the collection of weapons issued for the

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 53

exclusive use of personnel of the Armed Forces and the adoption of the Act on
Private Security Services;

3. Condemns the recent acts of violence that may be politically
motivated, which have been repudiated by the various sectors of Salvadorian
society, and considers it inadmissible that such acts, perpetrated by a small
minority, should jeopardize the progress made in implementing the agreements and
hamper the holding of free elections in March 1994;

4. Supports, in this context, the efforts of the Secretary-General, in
cooperation with the Government of El Salvador, to initiate immediately an
impartial, independent and credible investigation of illegal armed groups, as
recommended by the Commission on the Truth, and urges all sectors of society in
El Salvador to cooperate with such an investigation;

5. Notes with satisfaction the statement of 5 November 1993, entitled
"Commitment of the presidential candidates to peace and stability in El
Salvador", in which the candidates inter alia solemnly committed themselves to
maintain the constructive evolution of the peace process and to implement all
the commitments contained in the Peace Accords and rejected any politically
motivated violence or intimidation;

6. Calls upon all Governments to contribute to the consolidation of peace
and the attainment of full respect for human rights in El Salvador by supporting
full compliance with the Peace Accords;

7. Reiterates its gratitude for the important work being carried out by
the Secretary-General and his representative and by the United Nations Observer
Mission in El Salvador, and extends to them its support so that they can
continue to take all necessary steps to contribute to the successful
implementation of the Peace Accords;

8. Acknowledges with satisfaction the continuing efforts of the
Governments of Colombia, Mexico, Spain and Venezuela, which make up the Group of
Friends of the Secretary-General, as well as the Government of the United States
of America, in support of the steps being taken by the Secretary-General to
consolidate the peace process in El Salvador;

9. Notes that, as has been pointed out by the Secretary-General, the
human rights situation in El Salvador continues to evolve in a somewhat
ambivalent fashion, since, on the one hand, there continue to be signs of
improvement and, on the other hand, violations persist, particularly as regards
the right to life, and the capacity of the judicial system to clarify and punish
such violations continues to be unsatisfactory;

10. Urges all States, as well as the international financial and
development institutions, promptly and generously to provide financial
contributions to support the fulfilment of all aspects of the Peace Accords,
including the National Reconstruction Plan;

11. Also urges the Government of El Salvador and all other institutions
involved in the electoral process to adopt the necessary measures to create an

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 54

atmosphere conducive to ensuring that the elections which are to take place in
March 1994 are free, representative and authentic, since they are a key
component of the consolidation of the peace process.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Situation of human rights in Myanmar

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as stated in the Charter of the
United Nations and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 90/ the International Covenants on Human Rights 91/ and other
applicable human rights instruments,

Aware that, in accordance with the Charter, the Organization promotes and
encourages respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and that
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that "the will of the people
shall be the basis of the authority of government",

Recalling its resolution 47/144 of 18 December 1992,

Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1992/58 of
3 March 1992, 92/ in which the Commission, inter alia, decided to nominate a
special rapporteur to establish direct contacts with the Government and with the
people of Myanmar, including political leaders deprived of their liberty, their
families and their lawyers, with a view to examining the situation of human
rights in Myanmar and following any progress made towards the transfer of power
to a civilian Government and the drafting of a new Constitution, the lifting of
restrictions on personal freedoms and the restoration of human rights in
Myanmar,

Recalling further Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/73 of
10 March 1993, 93/ by which the Commission extended for one year the above
mandate of the Special Rapporteur,

Gravely concerned that the Government of Myanmar still has not implemented
its commitments to take all necessary steps towards democracy in the light of
the results of the elections held in 1990,

90/ Resolution 217 A (III).

91/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

92/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992, Supplement
No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. II, sect. A.

93/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993, Supplement
No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 55

Gravely concerned also at the continued violations of human rights in
Myanmar, as reported by the Special Rapporteur, in particular summary and
arbitrary executions, torture, forced labour, abuse of women, restrictions on
fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of expression and assembly, and the
imposition of oppressive measures directed in particular at ethnic and religious
minorities,

Noting that the human rights situation in Myanmar has consequently resulted
in flows of refugees to neighbouring countries, thus creating problems for the
countries concerned,

Noting also the measures taken by the Government of Myanmar, including its
accession to the Geneva Conventions of 1949 on the protection of victims of
war, 94/ and the release of a number of political prisoners in response to
the concerns expressed by the international community, including the General
Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights,

Welcoming the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the
Government of Myanmar and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees on 5 November 1993 on the voluntary repatriation of refugees from
Bangladesh to Myanmar,

Noting the cease-fire that has been reached between the Government of
Myanmar and several groups of ethnic and religious minorities in Myanmar,

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Special Rapporteur of the Commission
on Human Rights for his preliminary report and the conclusions and
recommendations contained therein; 95/

2. Deplores the continued violations of human rights in Myanmar;

3. Again urges the Government of Myanmar, in conformity with its
assurances given at various times, to take all necessary steps towards the
restoration of democracy in accordance with the will of the people as expressed
in the democratic elections held in 1990, and to ensure that political parties
can function freely;

4. Notes with concern the observation of the Special Rapporteur, with
regard to the National Convention, that no evident progress has been made
towards turning over power to a freely elected civilian Government; 95/

5. Also notes with concern in this respect that most of the
representatives duly elected in 1990 have been excluded from participating in
the meetings of the National Convention, created to prepare basic elements for
the drafting of a new Constitution, and that one of its objectives is to
maintain the participation of the armed forces in a leading role in the future
political life of the State;

94/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

95/ A/48/578, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 56

6. Strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to take all appropriate
measures to allow all citizens to participate freely in the political process in
accordance with the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
to accelerate the process of transition to democracy, in particular through the
transfer of power to the democratically elected representatives;

7. Urges the Government of Myanmar to ensure full respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and assembly,
and the protection of the rights of persons belonging to ethnic and religious
minorities and to put an end to violations of the right to life and integrity of
the human being, to the practices of torture, abuse of women, forced labour and
to enforced disappearances and summary executions;

8. Appeals to the Government of Myanmar to consider becoming a party to
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 91/ and the
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 91/ and to the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punishment; 96/

9. Stresses the importance of free and confidential access to prisoners
by international humanitarian agencies;

10. Regrets the recent harsh sentences meted out to a number of
dissidents, including persons voicing dissent in regard to the procedures of the
National Convention;

11. Regrets also that, while a certain number of political prisoners have
been released, many political leaders are still deprived of their freedom and
their fundamental rights;

12. Strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to release unconditionally
and immediately the Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, who is now in
her fifth year of detention without trial, and other political leaders and
remaining political prisoners;

13. Calls upon the Government of Myanmar to respect fully the obligations
of the Geneva Conventions of 1949, in particular the obligations in common
article III, and to make use of such services as may be offered by impartial
humanitarian bodies;

14. Encourages the Government of Myanmar fully to implement the Memorandum
of Understanding between the Government of Myanmar and the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees of 5 November 1993 and to create the
necessary conditions to ensure an end to the flows of refugees to neighbouring
countries and to facilitate their speedy repatriation and their full
reintegration, in conditions of safety and dignity;

96/ Resolution 39/46, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 57

15. Requests the Secretary-General to assist in the implementation of the
present resolution and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session;

16. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-ninth session.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 58

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Human rights in Haiti

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 46/7 of 11 October 1991, 46/138 of
17 December 1991, 47/20 of 24 November 1992 and 47/143 of 18 December 1992,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 97/ and the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 98/

Aware of its responsibility for the promotion and encouragement of respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, and resolved to keep a close
watch on human rights violations wherever they may occur,

Reaffirming that all Member States are required to promote and protect
human rights and to comply with the obligations laid down in the various
instruments in this field,

Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/68 of
10 March 1993, 99/ by which the Commission decided to extend the mandate of
the Special Rapporteur for one year, with a view to submitting an interim report
to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session and a final report to the
Commission at its fiftieth session,

Taking note also of the report of the International Civilian Mission in
Haiti, which was presented in accordance with General Assembly resolution
47/20 B of 20 April 1993, 100/

Deeply concerned about the grave events occurring in Haiti since
29 September 1991, which abruptly and violently interrupted the democratic
process in that country and have resulted in the loss of human lives and
violations of human rights,

Concerned also at the exodus of Haitian nationals leaving the country
because of the deteriorating political and economic situation since
29 September 1991,

97/ Resolution 217 A (III).

98/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

99/ See Official Documents of the Economic and Social Council, 1993,
Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

100/ A/47/960 and Corr.1, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 59

Deeply alarmed by the persistence and worsening of serious violations of
human rights, in particular summary and arbitrary executions, forced
disappearances, reports of torture and rape, arbitrary arrests and detentions
and denial of freedom of expression, assembly and association,

Deeply concerned by the increase in acts of violence and intimidation
against the Government of Haiti, especially the assassination of the Minister of
Justice, François Guy Malary, which have contributed to the temporary withdrawal
of the International Civilian Mission,

Recognizing the important role played by the International Civilian Mission
established by the United Nations and the Organization of American States, whose
presence in Haiti has prevented greater violations of human rights, and
encourages its earliest possible return to Haiti,

1. Commends the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights,
Mr. Marco Tulio Bruni Celli, for his report on the situation of human rights in
Haiti 101/ and supports the recommendations contained therein;

2. Once again condemns the overthrow of the constitutionally elected
President, Mr. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, and the use of violence and military
coercion, and the subsequent deterioration of the situation of human rights in
that country;

3. Expresses its conviction that the full implementation of the Agreement
of Governors Island, 102/ which was signed by all parties, is an essential
part of an improvement of the situation of human rights in Haiti, and that the
refusal by one of the parties to implement this Agreement has led to a further
deterioration of the human rights situation;

4. Expresses its deep concern about the continuing worsening of the human
rights situation in Haiti during 1993 and the resulting increase in violations
of the human rights embodied in the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, 98/ the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights, 98/ the American Convention on Human Rights: "Pact of
San José, Costa Rica" 103/ and other international human rights instruments;

5. Condemns the recurrence of the flagrant human rights violations
committed under the illegal government that took power following the coup of
29 September 1991, in particular, summary executions, political assassinations,
arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture, searches without warrant, rape,
restrictions on freedom of movement, expression, assembly and association and of
press and the repression of popular demonstrations calling for the return of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide;

101/ A/48/561, annex.

102/ A/47/975-S/26063.

103/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1144, No. 17955.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 60

6. Calls for the early return of the International Civilian Mission to
Haiti as a means of preventing further violations of human rights;

7. Calls the attention of the international community to the fate of the
Haitian nationals who are fleeing the country and requests its support in favour
of the efforts being made to assist them;

8. Expresses its appreciation to the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees for the work it is doing in favour of the Haitian
nationals fleeing the country and invites Member States to continue to give
financial and material support to its efforts;

9. Calls upon the Member States to continue, and to intensify, their
humanitarian assistance to the people of Haiti and welcomes in this regard the
decision of the Secretary-General to dispatch a team of additional humanitarian
personnel to Haiti;

10. Decides to keep the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms
in Haiti under review during its forty-ninth session and to consider it further
in the light of the information supplied by the Commission on Human Rights and
the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Situation of human rights in Afghanistan

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 104/ the International Covenants on
Human Rights 105/ and accepted humanitarian rules, as set out in the Geneva
Conventions of 12 August 1949 106/ and the Additional Protocols thereto, of
1977, 107/

Aware of its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms for all and resolved to remain vigilant with
regard to violations of human rights wherever they occur,

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations they
have freely undertaken under the various international instruments,

104/ Resolution 217 A (III).

105/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

106/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

107/ Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 61

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1984/37 of 24 May 1984, in
which the Council requested the Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights to
appoint a special rapporteur to examine the situation of human rights in
Afghanistan, with a view to formulating proposals that could contribute to
ensuring full protection of the human rights of the inhabitants of the country
before, during and after the withdrawal of all foreign forces,

Recalling also its resolution 47/141 of 18 December 1992 and all its other
relevant resolutions, as well as the resolutions of the Commission on Human
Rights and the decisions of the Economic and Social Council,

Taking note, in particular, of Commission on Human Rights resolution
1993/66 of 10 March 1993, 108/ in which the Commission decided to extend the
mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in
Afghanistan for one year and to request him to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session, and of Economic and Social Council decision 1993/275
of 28 July 1993, in which the Council approved the Commission’s decision,

Noting that, following the demise of the former Afghan Government, a
transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan was established, 109/

Noting with deep concern that in spite of the efforts and initiatives taken
by the Government of Afghanistan towards ensuring complete peace and stability,
a situation of armed confrontation, affecting mainly the civilian population,
which is still the target of indiscriminate military attacks by rival groups,
continues to exist in parts of the territory of Afghanistan, and in particular
in Kabul, and has also caused a dramatic rise in the number of persons displaced
inside the country,

Concerned that the prevailing situation in the country as regards the
political and legal order is affecting the security of members of all ethnic and
religious groups, including minorities,

Noting with concern reports of violations of rights enshrined in the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 105/ such as the right to
life, to liberty and security of person and to freedom of opinion, expression
and association,

Deeply concerned about the violation of the human rights of women by
warring factions in Afghanistan, and about the lack of respect towards them and
their honour, physical integrity and dignity, as reported by the Special
Rapporteur,

Concerned also at reports of detainees who are being held for political
reasons by rival groups, in particular in prisons run by political parties,
among whom are several members of the former Government,

108/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993, Supplement
No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

109/ See A/47/656, annex, appendix I.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 62

Noting that much remains to be done for the treatment of prisoners to be in
conformity with the provisions of the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 and
the Additional Protocols thereto of 1977,

Deeply concerned that the repatriation of Afghan refugees has dramatically
declined in 1993, owing to the prevailing situation in Afghanistan, and
expressing the hope that conditions in the country will allow those still in
exile to return as soon as possible,

Aware that peace and security in Afghanistan are prerequisites for the
successful repatriation of about four million refugees, in particular the
achievement of a comprehensive political solution and the establishment of a
freely and democratically elected government, the end of armed confrontation in
Kabul and in some provinces, the clearance of the minefields that have been laid
in many parts of the country, the restoration of an effective authority in the
whole country and the reconstruction of the economy,

Affirming that the declaration of general amnesty issued by the Islamic
State of Afghanistan should be applied in a strictly non-discriminatory manner
and that prisoners detained by rival groups without trial on Afghan territory
should be released unconditionally,

Commending the activity carried out by the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Committee of the Red Cross
in cooperation with the Afghan authorities, as well as non-governmental
organizations, in favour of the people of Afghanistan,

Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Special Rapporteur on
the situation of human rights in Afghanistan 110/ and of the conclusions and
recommendations contained therein,

Welcoming the fact that the Special Rapporteur was able to visit the
capital of Afghanistan, Kabul,

1. Welcomes the cooperation that authorities in Afghanistan have extended
to the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan in
view of the circumstances prevailing in the country;

2. Also welcomes the cooperation that the authorities in Afghanistan have
extended, in particular to the Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic
Assistance Programmes Relating to Afghanistan and to international
organizations, such as the specialized agencies, the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Committee of the
Red Cross;

3. Urges all the Afghan parties to undertake, where appropriate under the
auspices of the United Nations, all possible efforts in order to achieve a
comprehensive political solution, which is the only way to bring about peace and
the full restoration of human rights in Afghanistan, based on the free exercise

110/ A/48/584, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 63

of the right to self-determination by the people, including free and genuine
elections, the cessation of armed confrontation and the creation of conditions
that will permit the free return, as soon as possible, of about four million
refugees to their homeland in safety and dignity, whenever they wish, and the
full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms by all Afghans;

4. Welcomes all the efforts towards reaching a comprehensive, peaceful
political solution to the conflict in Afghanistan;

5. Urges all the parties to carry out, as soon as possible, a disarmament
process which constitutes a prerequisite to a solution to the conflict, as
decided also in the Islamabad agreement signed by the Afghan parties;

6. Invites the United Nations to offer, upon request of the Government of
Afghanistan and with due regard to the Afghan tradition, advisory services and
technical assistance concerning the drafting of the Constitution, which should
embody internationally accepted human rights principles, and the holding of
direct elections;

7. Recognizes that the promotion and protection of human rights should be
an essential element in the achievement of a comprehensive solution to the
crisis in Afghanistan, and calls upon all the Afghan parties to respect human
rights;

8. Urges all the Afghan parties to respect accepted humanitarian rules,
as set out in the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 and the Additional
Protocols thereto of 1977, to halt the use of weapons against the civilian
population, to protect all civilians from acts of reprisal and violence,
including ill-treatment, torture and summary executions, and to expedite the
simultaneous release of prisoners wherever they may be held;

9. Strongly urges all Afghan parties to ensure respect for the human
rights and fundamental freedoms of women, so that their honour and dignity be
ensured in accordance with the provisions of international human rights
instruments and the humanitarian law;

10. Calls upon all States and parties concerned to make all efforts for
the realization of its decision 47/428 of 16 December 1992 entitled "Prisoners
of war and persons missing as a result of war in Afghanistan", and calls upon
them to make all efforts for the immediate release of all prisoners of war, and
in particular of former Soviet prisoners of war, as provided for under article
118 of the Geneva Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, of
12 August 1949, 111/ considering that the hostilities in which the former
Soviet Union was involved have legally and effectively ended, and also in
particular for the tracing of the many Afghans still missing as the result of
the war;

111/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 972.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 64

11. Urges the unconditional release of all prisoners detained without
trial on the Afghan territory by rival groups, and calls for the abolition of
prisons run by political parties;

12. Calls upon the authorities in Afghanistan to investigate thoroughly
the fate of those persons who have disappeared during the conflict, to apply
amnesty decrees equally to all detainees, to reduce the period during which
prisoners await trial, to treat all prisoners, especially those awaiting trial
or those in custody in juvenile rehabilitation centres, in accordance with the
Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, 112/ adopted by the
First United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of
Offenders, and to apply to all suspected or convicted persons article 14,
paragraphs 3 (d), 5, 6 and 7, of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights; 105/

13. Appeals to all Member States to provide adequate humanitarian
assistance to Afghanistan, to contribute to alleviate the suffering of refugees,
especially the living conditions of women and children;

14. Urgently appeals to all Member States and humanitarian organizations
to continue to promote the implementation of the projects envisaged by the
Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programmes Relating to
Afghanistan and the programmes of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, especially the pilot projects for the repatriation of refugees;

15. Reiterates its appeals to all Member States, humanitarian
organizations and all parties concerned to cooperate fully on the subject of
mine detection and clearance, in order to facilitate the return of refugees and
displaced persons to their homes in safety and dignity;

16. Strongly urges all the parties to the conflict to undertake all
necessary measures to ensure the safety of the personnel of humanitarian
organizations involved in the implementation of the United Nations humanitarian
and economic assistance programmes relating to Afghanistan and the programmes of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, in order to avoid further
deplorable incidents such as those which have caused loss of life among that
personnel;

17. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, once the situation is back to normal and upon invitation of the
Afghan Government, to study the situation of the Kabul Museum and of the
national archives and to take proper action to preserve the Afghan cultural
heritage;

18. Recommends the translation into the dari and pashtu languages of the
report of the Special Rapporteur;

112/ See Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.88.XIV.1).

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 65

19. Urges the authorities in Afghanistan to continue to extend their full
cooperation to the Commission on Human Rights and its Special Rapporteur;

20. Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the
Special Rapporteur;

21. Decides to keep under consideration during its forty-ninth session the
situation of human rights in Afghanistan, in the light of additional elements
provided by the Commission on Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

Situation of human rights in the Territory of the former
Yugoslavia: violations of human rights in the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 113/ the International Covenants
on Human Rights, 114/ the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, 115/ the Convention on the Rights of the
Child, 116/ the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of
Genocide, 117/ the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment 118/ and other instruments of
international humanitarian law, including the Geneva Conventions of
12 August 1949 for the protection of victims of war 119/ and the Additional
Protocols thereto of 1977, 120/ as well as the principles and commitments
undertaken by States members of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe,

Gravely concerned at the human tragedy in the territories of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and

113/ Resolution 217 A (III).

114/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

115/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

116/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

117/ Resolution 260 A (III).

118/ Resolution 39/46, annex.

119/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

120/ Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 66

Montenegro) and at the continuing massive and systematic violations of human
rights occurring in most of those areas, particularly in the areas of Bosnia and
Herzegovina under Bosnian Serb control,

Recalling its resolution 47/147 of 18 December 1992, Commission on Human
Rights resolutions 1992/S-1/1, 1992/S-2/1 and 1993/7 and relevant resolutions of
the Security Council,

Recalling specifically Security Council resolutions 771 (1992) of
13 August 1992, 780 (1992) of 6 October 1992, 787 (1992) of 16 November 1992,
808 (1993) of 22 February 1993 and 827 (1993) of 25 May 1993 in which the
Council demanded, inter alia, that all parties and others concerned in the
former Yugoslavia immediately cease and desist from all breaches of
international humanitarian law, requested the Secretary-General to establish a
commission of experts to examine and analyse information relating to serious
violations of such law being committed in the territory of the former
Yugoslavia, and established an international tribunal for the prosecution of
persons responsible for such violations,

Welcoming the convening of the International Tribunal and the naming of its
Chief Prosecutor,

Welcoming also Security Council resolutions 824 (1993) of 6 May 1993 and
836 (1993) of 4 June 1993, in which the Council declared that Sarajevo, Tuzla,
Zepa, Gorazde, Bihac, Srebrenica and their surroundings should be treated as
safe areas and that international humanitarian agencies should be given free and
unimpeded access to those areas,

Welcoming further the interim report 121/ and recommendations of the
Special Rapporteur,

Expressing its appreciation to all States that have cooperated with the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,

Recalling its resolutions 47/80 of 16 December 1992, in which it condemned
unreservedly "ethnic cleansing" and acts of violence arising from racial hatred,
and reiterated its conviction that those who committed or ordered the commission
of acts of "ethnic cleansing" were individually responsible and should be
brought to justice, and 47/121 of 18 December 1992, in which it, inter alia,
stated that the abhorrent policy of "ethnic cleansing" was a form of genocide,

Noting with appreciation the efforts of the Special Rapporteur, as well as
those of the Chairman of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, the Special
Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, the Special
Rapporteur on the question of torture and the representative of the
Secretary-General on internally displaced persons, who accompanied him on his
missions,

121/ S/26469.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 67

Encouraging the continuing efforts made in the framework of the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia to find a peaceful solution,

Welcoming the ongoing efforts of the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe to re-establish its presence in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) in order to prevent further human rights violations, and
deeply concerned about the decision of the authorities in the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to expel the monitoring missions of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the European Community of
long duration to Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina, where the human rights situation
remains a cause of great concern,

Welcoming also the efforts of the European Union, inter alia, through its
monitoring missions, to promote respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms in the territory of the former Yugoslavia,

Gravely concerned at the human rights situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and in
particular at the continuing, odious practice of "ethnic cleansing", which is
the direct cause of the vast majority of human rights violations there and whose
principal victims are the Muslim population threatened with virtual
extermination,

Noting the discriminatory policies, measures and violent actions committed
against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, and aware of the possible escalation of the
situation into a violent conflict there,

Strongly rejecting policies and ideologies aimed at "ethnic cleansing" and
at promoting racial and religious hatred in any form,

Alarmed that, although the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a
religious conflict, it has been characterized by the systematic destruction and
profanation of mosques, churches and other places of worship, as well as other
sites of cultural heritage, in particular in areas currently or previously under
Bosnian Serb and Bosnian Croat control,

1. Commends the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in
the territories of the successor States of the former Yugoslavia for his
reports; 122/

2. Expresses its grave concern at the Special Rapporteur’s detailed
reports of massive and systematic violations of human rights and humanitarian
law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro);

3. Notes with grave concern the Special Rapporteur’s conclusions about
the impending humanitarian disaster in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
this winter;

122/ S/26383, S/26415, S/26469.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 68

4. Condemns in the strongest terms all violations of human rights and
international humanitarian law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) by all sides to the
conflict, recognizing that the leadership in territory under the control of
Serbs in the Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, the commanders of
Serb paramilitary forces and political and military leaders in the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) bear primary responsibility for
most of those violations;

5. Condemns also the specific violations identified by the Special
Rapporteur, most of which are committed in connection with "ethnic cleansing",
and which include killings, torture, beatings, arbitrary searches, rape,
disappearances, destruction of houses and other acts or threats of violence
aimed at forcing individuals to leave their homes, as well as reports of
violations of human rights in connection with detention;

6. Condemns further the indiscriminate shelling of cities and civilian
areas, the systematic terrorization and murder of non-combatants, the
destruction of vital services, and besieging of cities and the use of military
force against civilian populations and relief operations by all sides,
recognizing that the main responsibility lies with the Bosnian Serbs, who have
used such tactics as a matter of policy, and the Bosnian Croats;

7. Supports the determination of the Security Council that all persons
who perpetrate or authorize violations of international humanitarian law are
individually responsible for those breaches and that the international community
shall exert every effort to bring them to justice;

8. Urges all States, United Nations bodies, including the specialized
agencies, and the Special Rapporteur and, as appropriate, international
humanitarian organizations to make available substantiated information in their
possession or submitted to them relating to the violations and the perpetrators
of such violations of international humanitarian law, including grave breaches
of the Geneva Conventions, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to the International Tribunal
established by Security Council resolution 827 (1993) for prosecution, as
appropriate, by the Chief Prosecutor;

9. Expresses deep concern at the number of disappearances and missing
persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and reiterates calls on all parties to make
all possible efforts to account for those missing;

10. Urges that an immediate end be brought to the continuing practice of
"ethnic cleansing", and in particular that the authorities of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) use their influence with the
self-proclaimed Serbian authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia to
bring the practice of "ethnic cleansing" to an immediate end and to reverse the
effects of that practice;

11. Urges the Government of Croatia to use its influence with the
self-proclaimed Croatian authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring the

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 69

practice of "ethnic cleansing" to an immediate end and to reverse the effects of
that practice;

12. Reaffirms that States are to be held accountable for violations of
human rights which their agents commit upon their own territory or the territory
of another State;

13. Expresses its complete support for the victims of those violations,
reaffirms the right of all persons to return to their homes in safety and
dignity, considers invalid all acts made under duress affecting ownership of
property and other related questions, recognizes the right of victims of "ethnic
cleansing" to receive just reparation for their losses, and urges all parties to
fulfil their agreements to this end;

14. Condemns in particular the violations of human rights and humanitarian
law in connection with detention, including killings, torture and the systematic
practice of rape, and urges the immediate, internationally supervised release of
all persons arbitrarily or illegally detained in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia
and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro);

15. Calls for the immediate closure of all detention facilities not in
compliance with the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949; 118/

16. Urges all parties to notify immediately the International Committee of
the Red Cross of the locations of all camps, prisons and other places of
detention within Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and that the International Committee of the
Red Cross, the Special Rapporteur and his staff, the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, the monitoring and other missions of the European
Union and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and other
relevant international and regional organizations be granted immediate,
unimpeded and continued access to such places of detention;

17. Expresses its grave concern at the deteriorating human rights
situation in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)
particularly in Kosovo, as described in the reports of the Special Rapporteur,
and strongly condemns the violations of human rights occurring there;

18. Strongly condemns in particular the measures and practices of
discrimination and the violations of the human rights of the ethnic Albanians of
Kosovo, as well as the large-scale repression committed by the Serbian
authorities, including:

(a) Police brutality against ethnic Albanians, arbitrary searches,
seizures and arrests, torture and ill-treatment during detention and
discrimination in the administration of justice, which leads to a climate of
lawlessness in which criminal acts, particularly against ethnic Albanians, take
place with impunity;

(b) The discriminatory removal of ethnic Albanian officials, especially
from the police and judiciary, the mass dismissal of ethnic Albanians from
professional, administrative and other skilled positions in State-owned

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 70

enterprises and public institutions, including teachers from the Serb-run school
system, and the closure of Albanian high schools and universities;

(c) Arbitrary imprisonment of ethnic Albanian journalists, the closure of
Albanian-language mass media and the discriminatory removal of ethnic Albanian
staff from local radio and television stations;

(d) Repression by the Serbian police and military;

19. Urges the authorities in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro):

(a) To take all necessary measures to bring to an immediate end the human
rights violations inflicted on the ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, including, in
particular, discriminatory measures and practices, arbitrary detention and the
use of torture, other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and the occurrence
of summary executions;

(b) To revoke all discriminatory legislation, in particular that which has
entered into force since 1989;

(c) To re-establish the democratic institutions of Kosovo, including the
Parliament and the judiciary;

(d) To resume dialogue with the ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, including
under the auspices of the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia;

20. Also urges the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to respect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of
ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, and expresses the view that the best means to
safeguard human rights in Kosovo is to restore its autonomy;

21. Expresses its grave concern at the report by the Special Rapporteur of
violations of human rights occurring in Sandjak and Vojvodina, particularly acts
of physical harassment, abductions, the burning of homes, warrantless searches,
confiscation of property, arbitrary arrests, the closure of political parties,
and other discriminatory practices in favour of the Serbian population, which
are intended to change the ethnic structure of those areas;

22. Calls upon the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to allow the immediate entry of an international human
rights monitoring presence into the country, particularly to Kosovo, and
strongly urges the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro) to reconsider their refusal to allow the continuation of the
activities of the missions of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe in Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina and to cooperate with the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe by taking the practical steps for the
resumption of the activities of those missions called for by the Security
Council in its resolution 855 (1993) in order to prevent the extension of the
conflict of those areas;

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 71

23. Reaffirms that all parties to the conflict in the territories of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro) share the responsibility for finding a peaceful solution through
negotiations under the auspices of the International Conference on the Former
Yugoslavia, urges that human rights concerns be given proper priority in the
peace process, and calls upon the parties to implement immediately all
commitments made in the framework of the International Conference on the Former
Yugoslavia and to reach a just and durable solution as soon as possible;

24. Urges all United Nations bodies, including the United Nations
Protection Force, the United Nations human rights treaty bodies and the
specialized agencies, and Governments and informed intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur,
and in particular to provide him on a continuing basis with all relevant and
accurate information in their possession on the situation of human rights in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro);

25. Urges all States and competent organizations to consider
implementation of the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur and his recent
reports, and in particular:

(a) Welcomes the Special Rapporteur’s call for the opening of humanitarian
relief corridors to prevent the imminent death of tens of thousands of persons,
especially in view of the lack of access to many areas in the face of the coming
winter;

(b) Supports the Special Rapporteur’s call for the immediate release of
detainees into conditions of safety;

(c) Draws the attention of the international community to the need for an
effective response to counter the policy of "ethnic cleansing" perpetrated by
any side, particularly the Bosnian Serb forces, who have used such tactics as a
matter of policy, and Bosnian Croat forces;

(d) Supports the request of the Special Rapporteur to the Croatian
authorities to take action against those who have committed human rights
violations and contravened international humanitarian standards in the Medak
Pocket and to take steps to punish those responsible to prevent such incidents
in the future;

(e) Welcomes the signing of the Joint Declaration with respect to Freedom
of Movement of 18 November 1993, in which the signatories have solemnly agreed
to ensure complete and secure freedom of movement for all personnel of the
United Nations and international humanitarian organizations and which was
solemnly renewed within the framework of the Geneva Conference of
29 November 1993;

26. Urges the Secretary-General to take all necessary steps to ensure the
full and effective coordination of the activities of all United Nations bodies
in implementing the present resolution, and urges those bodies concerned with
the situation in the territories of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 72

Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to coordinate closely
with the Special Rapporteur and the Tribunal;

27. Also urges the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to make
all necessary resources available for the Special Rapporteur to carry out his
mandate and in particular to provide him with adequate staff based in the
territories of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to ensure effective continuous monitoring of
the human rights situation there and coordination with other United Nations
bodies involved, including the United Nations Protection Force;

28. Requests the Secretary-General to give all other necessary assistance
to the Special Rapporteur to enable him to fulfil his mandate;

29. Calls upon the States concerned to cooperate fully with the Special
Rapporteur so as to enable him to fulfil his mandate;

30. Invites the Chief Prosecutor to consider the appointment to his office
of experts in the prosecution of crimes of sexual violence;

31. Calls upon States to put experts, including experts in the prosecution
of crimes of sexual violence, at the disposal of the Chief Prosecutor and the
Tribunal;

32. Invites the Commission on Human Rights at its fiftieth session to
request the Special Rapporteur to report to the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session;

33. Decides to continue its examination of this question at its
forty-ninth session under the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

Situation of human rights in Cambodia

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 123/ and the International Covenants
on Human Rights, 124/

Taking note of the Agreement on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the
Cambodia Conflict 125/ signed on 23 October 1991, including part III
relating to human rights,

123/ Resolution 217 A (III).

124/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

125/ A/46/608-S/23177.

/...



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 73

Recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/6 of
19 February 1993, 126/

Bearing in mind the role and responsibilities of the United Nations and the
international community in the process of the rehabilitation and reconstruction
of Cambodia,

Recognizing that Cambodia’s tragic recent history requires special measures
to assure the protection of the human rights of all people in Cambodia and the
non-return to the policies and practices of the past, as stipulated in the Paris
Agreements, 125/

Welcoming the elections of May 1993 and the inauguration of the Government
of the Kingdom of Cambodia,

1. Welcomes the establishment in Cambodia of an operational presence of
the Centre for Human Rights:

(a) To manage the implementation of educational and technical assistance
and advisory services programmes, and to ensure their continuation;

(b) To assist the Government of Cambodia established after the election,
at its request, in meeting its obligations under the human rights instruments
recently adhered to, including the preparation of reports to the relevant
monitoring committees;

(c) To provide support to bona fide human rights groups in Cambodia;

(d) To contribute to the creation and/or strengthening of national
institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights;

(e) To continue to assist with the drafting and implementation of
legislation to promote and protect human rights;

(f) To continue to assist with the training of persons responsible for the
administration of justice;

2. Requests the Secretary-General, in line with all effective measures,
to assure the protection of the human rights of all people in Cambodia and to
ensure adequate resources, from within existing overall United Nations
resources, for the functioning of the operational presence of the Centre for
Human Rights in Cambodia;

3. Welcomes also the appointment by the Secretary-General of a Special
Representative to undertake the tasks set out in paragraph 6 of Commission on
Human Rights resolution 1993/6;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary resources,
from within existing resources, to enable the Special Representative to fulfil
those tasks expeditiously;

126/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993, Supplement
No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.



A/48/632/Add.3
English
Page 74

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session on the role of the Centre for Human Rights in
assisting the Cambodian Government and people in the promotion and protection of
human rights and on any recommendations made by the Special Representative on
matters within his mandate;

6. Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights
in Cambodia at its forty-ninth session.

-----


