





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/632/Add.2
17 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 114 (b)

HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS: HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS, INCLUDING
ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES FOR IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT

OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS

Report of the Third Committee (Part III)*

Rapporteur: Mrs. Rosa Carmina Recinos de MALDONADO (Guatemala)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-eighth session the item entitled:

"Human rights questions:

"(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for
improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms"

and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item in conjunction with items 115 and 172 at
its 36th to 55th meetings, on 17 to 19, 22 to 24, 26, 29 and 30 November and on
1, 3, 6 and 8 December. Item 114 (b) was also considered at the 56th to 58th
meetings, on 13 and 16 December.** An account of the Committee’s discussion of
the item is contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/48/SR.36-58).

3. For the documents before the Committee under this item, see document
A/48/632.
________________________

* The report of the Committee on item 114 will be issued in five parts
(see A/48/632 and Add.1 and Add.3-4).

** See also A/48/632/Add.4.

93-71356 (E) 191293 /...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 2

4. At its 38th meeting, on 19 November, the Committee heard a statement by
Mrs. Rigoberta Menchù, United Nations Goodwill Ambassador for the International
Year of the World’s Indigenous People, and Nobel Prize Laureate (see
A/C.3/48/SR.38).

5. At the 40th meeting, on 23 November, the Assistant Secretary-General for
Human Rights made an introductory statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.40).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.38

6. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Austria, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican
Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, the Gambia,
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malta, the Marshall Islands, Mexico, the Federated States of Micronesia,
Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Korea, Romania, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, the Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Tajikistan,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United
States of America, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen and Zambia, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "World Conference on Human Rights" (A/C.3/48/L.38).
Subsequently, Ecuador, Guinea, Honduras, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Mauritania, Monaco,
Mongolia, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, the Republic of Moldova, the Sudan, Thailand,
Uganda, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

7. The Committee had before it a statement of the programme budget
implications of draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.38, submitted by the Secretary-
General in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly (A/C.3/48/L.80).

8. At its 54th meeting, on 8 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.38 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.42 and amendments
thereto contained in document A/C.3/48/L.52

9. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Turkey, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Colombia,
Croatia, Cuba, Egypt, Guatemala, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Morocco,
Nigeria, Peru, the Republic of Korea, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkey and

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 3

Turkmenistan, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights and
terrorism" (A/C.3/48/L.42).

10. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan introduced amendments
(A/C.3/48/L.52) to draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.42, by which:

(a) A new third preambular paragraph would be added, reading:

"Reaffirming the principles enunciated in its resolution 46/51 of
9 December 1991";

(b) A new operative paragraph 2 would be added, reading:

"2. Takes into account the particular situation of peoples under
colonial or other forms of alien domination or foreign occupation, and
recognizes the right of peoples to take any legitimate action, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, to realize their
inalienable right of self-determination";

(c) A new operative paragraph would be added, reading:

"3. Considers the denial of the right of self-determination of the
peoples under colonial or alien domination or foreign occupation as a
violation of human rights, and underlines the importance of the effective
realization of this right".

11. At the 52nd meeting, on 6 December, statements were made by the
representatives of Turkey, the Syrian Arab Republic and Pakistan (see
A/C.3/48/SR.52).

12. At the 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Turkey stated
that, as a result of informal consultations, the sponsors of the amendments to
draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.42 contained in document A/C.3/48/L.52 had agreed
not to press their amendments (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

13. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of the
Syrian Arab Republic and the United States of America made statements (see
A/C.3/48/SR.53).

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.42
without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution II).

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of Belgium
(on behalf of the European Union), Sweden, Canada, Pakistan and Israel made
statements (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.43

16. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Algeria, Angola, the Central African Republic, Cuba, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, the Gambia, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 4

Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mexico, Namibia, Nigeria, Peru, Sierra Leone,
the Sudan, Uganda, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms" (A/C.3/48/L.43).

17. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.43 by a recorded vote of 99 to 36, with 20 abstentions (see para. 88,
draft resolution III). The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France,
Gambia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Belarus, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia,
Estonia, Fiji, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Marshal
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), New Zealand,
Panama, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Turkey.

18. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of Belgium
(on behalf of the European Union), Colombia and Finland (on behalf of the Nordic
countries) made statements (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

1/ Subsequently, the delegations of Bolivia and the Gambia indicated that
they had intended to vote in favour, and the delegation of Ukraine indicated
that it had intended to abstain.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 5

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.44

19. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of China, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Gambia, the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Namibia, the Sudan, the United Republic of
Tanzania, Viet Nam and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Respect
for the principles of national sovereignty and non-interference in the internal
affairs of States in their electoral processes" (A/C.3/48/L.44).

20. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Cuba orally
corrected it by replacing the words "resolution 46/130 of 17 December 1991" with
the words "resolution 47/130 of 18 December 1992" in the tenth preambular
paragraph.

21. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.44, as orally corrected, by a recorded vote of 86 to 52, with 18
abstentions (see para. 88, draft resolution IV). The voting was as
follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, Tajikistan, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

2/ Subsequently, the delegation of Guyana indicated that it had intended
to vote in favour, and the delegation of Belarus indicated that it had intended
to vote against.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 6

Abstaining: Belize, Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Fiji,
Georgia, Guyana, Jamaica, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Nicaragua, Paraguay, Philippines, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
Turkmenistan, Uruguay, Zambia.

22. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Argentina, Belgium (on behalf of the European Union), Costa
Rica and Chile (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.45

23. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, China, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Gabon,
the Gambia, Ghana, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Namibia, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Peru, the Sudan, the United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Strengthening of United Nations action
in the human rights field through the promotion of international cooperation and
the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity"
(A/C.3/48/L.45). Subsequently, Afghanistan and Mozambique joined in sponsoring
the draft resolution.

24. At the same meeting, the representative of Australia orally amended the
draft resolution by replacing the words "in particular" before the words "the
special rapporteurs" with the words "as well as" in operative paragraph 6.

25. At the 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Cuba made a
statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

26. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.45,
as orally amended, without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution V).

27. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Chile, Sweden (on behalf of the Nordic countries) and Costa
Rica (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.46

28. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Turkey, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Chile, the Comoros, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic,
Egypt, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the
Russian Federation, Senegal, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey and Ukraine, introduced a draft resolution entitled "United
Nations year for tolerance" (A/C.3/48/L.46).

29. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.46 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution VI).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 7

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.47

30. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Costa Rica, on
behalf of Angola, Cameroon, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, the Dominican
Republic, Ethiopia, the Gambia, Guatemala, Malawi, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, the Philippines, Poland, Senegal,
Sierra Leone and Slovenia, introduced a draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.47 entitled
"Human rights education decade" (A/C.3/48/L.47). Subsequently, Cyprus and
Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

31. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Costa Rica
orally revised the fourth preambular paragraph by replacing the words "children,
women, indigenous peoples, minorities, the disabled and others" with the words
"children, women, youths, persons with disabilities, the ageing, indigenous
people, minorities and other groups".

32. At the same meeting, the representative of Côte d’Ivoire made a statement
(see A/C.3/48/SR.50).

33. At the 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Costa Rica
further orally revised the draft resolution by replacing operative paragraph 4,
which read:

"4. Requests the Commission on Human Rights, to consider in
cooperation with Member States, human rights treaty-monitoring bodies and
appropriate bodies and appropriate non-governmental organizations,
proposals for a United Nations decade for human rights education and to
submit, through the Economic and Social Council, a plan of action for such
a decade, to be proclaimed by the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session"

with the following text:

"4. Requests the Commission on Human Rights, in cooperation with
Member States, human rights treaty-monitoring bodies, other appropriate
bodies and competent non-governmental organizations, to consider proposals
for a United Nations decade for human rights education, which should be
incorporated by the Secretary-General into a plan of action for such a
decade and submitted, through the Economic and Social Council, to the
General Assembly at its forty-ninth session with a view to the proclamation
of a decade for human rights education".

34. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Uganda,
Brazil, Kenya, Barbados, France, Ecuador, Mexico, Colombia, Bolivia and the
United States of America (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

35. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.47, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 88, draft
resolution VII).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 8

H. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.48

36. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Ireland, on
behalf of Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Belarus, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, San Marino,
Sierra Leone, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Uruguay and
Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Elimination of all forms of
religious intolerance" (A/C.3/48/L.48). Subsequently, Honduras joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

37. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.48 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution VIII).

I. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.49

38. At the 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Greece, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, the Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, the Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malta, the Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Monaco, Morocco, Namibia,
Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of
Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Strengthening of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat"
(A/C.3/48/L.49). Subsequently, Andorra, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Tajikistan and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined in sponsoring
the draft resolution.

39. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba made a statement (see
A/C.3/48/SR.53).

40. At the 54th meeting, on 8 December, the Secretary of the Committee made a
statement on the programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see
A/C.3/48/SR.54).

41. At the same meeting, the Chairman read out a revision to the draft
resolution by which the words "without diverting resources from development
programmes and activities of the United Nations" were added at the end of
operative paragraph 6.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 9

42. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Cuba,
Greece, Costa Rica, Uganda, the Netherlands, Ireland, Kenya, Singapore, Chile,
Belgium, Egypt, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Cameroon, Canada, Algeria, Hungary,
Monaco, China, India, Sri Lanka, Australia, the United States of America,
Malaysia, Mauritania, New Zealand, Argentina and Bulgaria (see A/C.3/48/SR.54).

43. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Greece further orally
revised operative paragraph 6 of the draft resolution by replacing the words
"additional resources from the regular budget" with the words "appropriate
additional resources from within the existing and future regular budgets of the
United Nations".

44. Also at the 54th meeting, the representative of Chile made a statement (see
A/C.3/48/SR.54).

45. At the same meeting, the Chairman made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.54).

46. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.49, as orally revised without a vote (see para. 88, draft
resolution IX).

47. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Uganda, Japan, Malawi and Cuba (see A/C.3/48/SR.54).

J. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.50

48. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Indonesia, on
behalf of Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, Costa
Rica, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, France, Indonesia (on behalf of the
States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries), Mexico, Norway, Spain and Uruguay, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Right to development" (A/C.3/48/L.50).

49. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.50 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution X).

50. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Niger and the United States of America (see
A/C.3/48/SR.52).

K. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.54

51. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Bolivia,
Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Dominica, the Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Fiji, the Gambia, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guyana, Jamaica, the Marshall Islands, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, the Philippines, Sierra Leone, Suriname and Trinidad and
Tobago, introduced a draft resolution entitled "International Decade of the

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 10

World’s Indigenous People" (A/C.3/48/L.54). Subsequently, Chile joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

52. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Australia orally
revised operative paragraph 9 by adding the words "with Governments and in
partnership with indigenous people" after the words "to consider" and replacing
the words "taking fully into account through appropriate channels the views of
indigenous people" with the words "through appropriate channels".

53. At its 54th meeting, on 8 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.54, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 88, draft
resolution XI).

54. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Bangladesh and China (see A/C.3/48/SR.54).

L. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.55

55. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of the United States
of America, on behalf of Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, the Central African Republic, Chad, Costa Rica, Cyprus, the
Czech Republic, Denmark, Ethiopia, Finland, the Gambia, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, the
Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Poland, the Republic of Korea, the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, San Marino,
Slovakia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, the United States of America and Yemen introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine
elections" (A/C.3/48/L.55.

56. At the 52nd meeting, on 6 December, statements were made by the
representatives of Cuba, China and the United States of America (see
A/C.3/48/SR.52).

57. At the same meeting, the Committee took action on draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.55 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 129 to 5, with
13 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lesotho,

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 11

Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, San
Marino, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iraq,
Myanmar.

Abstaining: Djibouti, El Salvador, Fiji, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras,
Malaysia, Philippines, Solomon Islands, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Uganda, Viet Nam.

(b) Operative paragraph 4 was adopted by a recorded vote of 129 to 5, with
14 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, San
Marino, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 12

Against: China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iraq,
Myanmar.

Abstaining: Djibouti, El Salvador, Fiji, Guinea, Honduras, Lesotho,
Malaysia, Philippines, Solomon Islands, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Uganda, Viet Nam.

(c) Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.55, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 138 to 1, with 15 abstentions (see para. 88, draft resolution XII). The
voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gambia,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States
of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, San
Marino, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Cuba.

Abstaining: China, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, El Salvador,
Fiji, Iraq, Myanmar, Namibia, Philippines, Solomon Islands,
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.

58. After the adoption of the draft resolution the representatives of Germany
and Guyana made statements (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

3/ Subsequently, the delegation of Cameroon indicated that, had it been
present, it would have voted in favour.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 13

M. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.56

59. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Brazil, on behalf
of Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
France, the Gambia, Georgia, Malawi, Norway, Peru, the Philippines, the Russian
Federation, Senegal, Uruguay and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Strengthening of the rule of law" (A/C.3/48/L.56). Subsequently,
Andorra, Belarus, Bolivia, Cambodia, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Denmark, the
Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, India, Japan,
Kyrgyzstan, Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Portugal, the Republic of
Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, the Sudan, Togo, Uganda, and
Ukraine joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

60. At its 52nd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.56 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution XIII).

61. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of France
made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.52).

N. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.60

62. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Canada, on behalf
of Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, the Bahamas, Bolivia, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Hungary, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, Senegal,
Slovenia, Sweden and Trinidad and Tobago, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"International Year of the World’s Indigenous People, 1993" (A/C.3/48/L.60).

63. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.60 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution XIV).

64. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of India
and Brazil made statements (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

O. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.63

65. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of India, on behalf
of Australia, Belarus, Costa Rica, Cyprus, France, the Gambia, Guatemala, India,
Mongolia, Morocco, New Zealand, Nigeria, Peru, the Russian Federation, Ukraine,
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "National institutions for the promotion and protection of
human rights" (A/C.3/48/L.63). Subsequently, Cameroon, Colombia, Guyana, the
Philippines and Senegal joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

66. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of India orally
revised the last preambular paragraph by adding the words "emphasizing the
universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights" after the
words "at the national level".

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 14

67. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution,
A/C.3/48/L.63 as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 88, draft
resolution XV).

68. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Norway
(on behalf of the Nordic countries) made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

P. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.64

69. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Norway, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Chile, Costa
Rica, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, the Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Lesotho, Mozambique,
Namibia, Norway, Peru, Poland, the Russian Federation, the Sudan, Sweden, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Zambia, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Internally displaced persons" (A/C.3/48/L.64).
Subsequently, Angola, Canada, Ethiopia, Honduras, Rwanda and Slovakia joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

70. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.64 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution XVI).

Q. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.66

71. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Belgium, on
behalf of Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Botswana,
Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, the Central African Republic, Chad,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Denmark, the Dominican Republic,
Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, the Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Lesotho, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, the Marshall Islands, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal,
the Russian Federation, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovenia, Spain,
Swaziland, Sweden, Togo, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Plight of street children" (A/C.3/48/L.66). Subsequently, Afghanistan,
Andorra, Angola, Cambodia, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, India, Iraq, Jamaica,
Monaco, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, the Niger, Pakistan, the Republic of Moldova
and Thailand also joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

72. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.66 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution XVII).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 15

R. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.69

73. At the 50th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Austria, on
behalf of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Denmark, Ethiopia, Finland, France, the Gambia, Germany,
Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway,
Poland, Rwanda, San Marino, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Republic of
Tanzania, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights in the
administration of justice" (A/C.3/48/L.69). Subsequently, Albania, Andorra,
Nicaragua, Senegal and Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

74. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.69 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution XVIII).

S. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.71

75. At the 51st meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Austria, on
behalf of Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Benin,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Finland, the Gambia, Georgia, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malawi, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, the
Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine and Uruguay, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to
National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities" (A/C.3/48/L.71).
Subsequently, Costa Rica, Iceland, India, Kyrgyzstan, Guinea-Bissau, Latvia,
Nepal, Senegal and the United States of America joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

76. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.71 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution XIX).

77. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Turkey and Georgia (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

T. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.76

78. At the 51st meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Canada, on behalf
of Albania, Australia, Cameroon, Canada, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Finland,
France, the Gambia, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Luxembourg,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, the Philippines, Poland, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights and mass exoduses"
(A/C.3/48/L.76).

79. At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.76 without a vote (see para. 88, draft resolution XX).

80. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of India
made a statement (see A/C.3/48/SR.53).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 16

U. Draft resolution A/C.3/48/L.77

81. At the 51st meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Belarus, on
behalf of Argentina, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Chile, Costa Rica, France,
Guatemala, Madagascar, Monaco, Poland and Senegal introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Human rights and scientific and technological progress"
(A/C.3/48/L.77) Subsequently, Andorra joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

82. At the same meeting, the representative of Belarus made a statement (see
A/C.3/48/SR.51).

83. At the 55th meeting, on 8 December, statements were made by the
representatives of Belarus, India, Senegal and Cuba (see A/C.3/48/SR.55).

84. At the 56th meeting, on 13 December, the representative of Belarus made
oral revisions to the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In the eighth preambular paragraph, the words "and that illicit
dumping of toxic and dangerous products and waste potentially constitutes a
serious threat to the human rights, the life and health of everyone" were added
at the end of the paragraph;

(b) In the eleventh preambular paragraph, the words "to ensure their use
in favour of economic and social progress for all" were replaced with the words
"that their use in favour of economic and social progress be to the benefit of
all";

(c) In operative paragraph 2, the words "that is, inter alia, measures
against the illicit dumping of toxic and dangerous products and waste" were
added at the end of the paragraph;

(d) Operative paragraph 3, which read:

"3. Emphasizes that scientific knowledge and technology in health,
education, housing and other social spheres should be readily available to
the populations as the heritage of humanity"

was replaced with the following text:

"3. Emphasizes the fact that many advances in scientific knowledge
and technology in health, education, housing and other social spheres
should be readily available to the populations as the heritage of humanity,
with a view to sustainable development, taking into account the need to
protect intellectual property rights".

85. At the same meeting, the representative of Ireland proposed an amendment to
preambular the eighth preambular paragraph, whereby the words "dangerous
products" would be replaced with the words "dangerous substances" (see
para. 84 (c) above).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 17

86. Also at the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of
Barbados, the Bahamas, Algeria and Chile (see A/C.3/48/SR.56).

87. Also at its 56th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/48/L.77, as orally revised and amended, without a vote (see para. 88,
draft resolution XXI).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

88. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

World Conference on Human Rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 45/155 of 18 December 1990, in which it decided,
inter alia, to convene at a high level a World Conference on Human Rights in
1993, 46/116 of 17 December 1991 and 47/122 of 18 December 1992,

Taking note with appreciation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from
14 to 25 June 1993, 4/

Recalling the view of the Conference that the promotion and protection of
human rights is a matter of priority for the international community,

Convinced that the Conference made an important contribution to the cause
of human rights and that its results have to be translated into effective action
by States, the competent organs of the United Nations and its family of
organizations and other organizations concerned, as well as non-governmental
organizations,

Bearing in mind the recommendation of the Conference that the General
Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights and other organs and bodies of the
United Nations system related to human rights consider ways and means for the
full implementation, without delay, of the recommendations contained in the
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,

Expressing its gratitude to the Government and people of Austria for acting
as hosts to the World Conference on Human Rights, for the excellent arrangements
and for the hospitality extended to all participants,

4/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1933 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 18

Expressing its appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
the Secretary-General of the Conference and the members of the Secretariat for
effectively preparing and servicing the Conference,

1. Takes note of the report of the World Conference on Human Rights; 5/

2. Endorses the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted on
25 June 1993 by the World Conference on Human Rights;

3. Expresses its satisfaction with the work of the Conference, which
constitutes a solid foundation for further action and initiatives by the United
Nations and other interested international bodies, as well as by the States and
national organizations concerned;

4. Confirms the views of the Conference on the urgency of eliminating
denials and violations of human rights;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure the distribution of the
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action as widely as possible and to include
the text of the Declaration in the next edition of Human Rights: A Compilation
of International Instruments;

6. Also requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the competent
organs of the United Nations and the specialized agencies the Vienna Declaration
and Programme of Action;

7. Urges all States to give widespread publicity to the Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action and the work of the Conference in order to
promote increased awareness of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

8. Calls upon all States to take further action with a view to the full
realization of human rights in the light of the recommendations of the
Conference;

9. Requests the Secretary-General, the General Assembly, the Commission
on Human Rights and other organs and bodies of the United Nations system related
to human rights to take further action with a view to the full implementation of
all recommendations of the Conference;

10. Also requests the Secretary-General to report annually to the General
Assembly on the measures taken and the progress achieved in the implementation
of the recommendations;

11. Decides to include in the agenda of its forthcoming sessions, under
the item entitled "Human rights questions", a standing sub-item entitled
"Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action".

5/ A/CONF.157/24 (Part I).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 19

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Human rights and terrorism

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 6/ and the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 7/

Bearing in mind that the most essential and basic human right is the right
to life,

Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights held at Vienna from 14 to 15 June 1993, 4/

Reiterating that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and also that every individual
should strive to secure their universal and effective recognition and
observance,

Seriously concerned at the gross violations of human rights perpetrated by
terrorist groups,

Profoundly deploring the increasing number of innocent persons, including
women, children and the elderly, killed, massacred and maimed by terrorists in
indiscriminate and random acts of violence and terror, which cannot be justified
under any circumstances,

Noting with great concern the growing connection between the terrorist
groups and the illegal traffic in arms and drugs,

Mindful of the need to protect human rights of and guarantees for the
individual in accordance with the relevant international human rights principles
and instruments, particularly the right to life,

1. Unequivocally condemns all acts, methods and practices of terrorism in
all its forms and manifestations, wherever and by whomever committed, as
activities aimed at the destruction of human rights, fundamental freedoms and
democracy, threatening the territorial integrity and security of States,
destabilizing legitimately constituted Governments, undermining pluralistic
civil society and having adverse consequences on the economic and social
development of States;

2. Calls upon States, in accordance with international standards of human
rights, to take all necessary and effective measures to prevent, combat and
eliminate terrorism;

6/ Resolution 217 A (III).

7/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 20

3. Urges the international community to enhance cooperation in the fight
against the threat of terrorism at national, regional and international levels;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the text of the present
resolution to all Member States and to competent specialized agencies and
intergovernmental organizations;

5. Decides to consider this question at its forty-ninth session under the
item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of

human rights and fundamental freedoms

The General Assembly,

Recalling that in the Charter of the United Nations the peoples of the
United Nations declared their determination to reaffirm faith in fundamental
human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal
rights of men and women and of nations large and small and to employ
international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement
of all peoples,

Recalling also the purposes and principles of the Charter to achieve
international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic,
social, cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and encouraging
respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

Emphasizing the significance and validity of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights 6/ and of the International Covenants on Human Rights 7/ in
promoting respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Recalling its resolution 32/130 of 16 December 1977, in which it decided
that the approach to future work within the United Nations system with respect
to human rights questions should take into account the concepts set forth in
that resolution,

Noting with concern that many of the principles enunciated in its
resolution 32/130 have not yet been taken into consideration by the
international community with all the necessary dynamism and objectivity,

Emphasizing the special importance of the purposes and principles
proclaimed in the Declaration on the Right to Development, contained in the
annex to its resolution 41/128 of 4 December 1986,

Reaffirming that the implementation of the right to development is an
indispensable element in the process of creating the appropriate conditions for

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 21

the full enjoyment and preservation of all human rights and fundamental
liberties,

Taking into account the final documents of the Tenth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to
6 September 1992, 8/

Reiterating that the right to development is an inalienable human right and
that equality of development opportunities is a prerogative both of nations and
of individuals within nations,

Expressing its particular concern about the progressive worsening of living
conditions in the developing world and the negative impact thereof on the full
enjoyment of human rights, and especially about the very serious economic
situation of the African continent and the disastrous effects of the heavy
burden of the external debt for the peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America,

Reiterating its profound conviction that all human rights and fundamental
freedoms are indivisible and interdependent and that equal attention and urgent
consideration should be given to the implementation, promotion and protection of
civil and political rights and of economic, social and cultural rights,

Deeply convinced that, today more than ever, economic and social
development and human rights are complementary elements leading to the same
goal, that is, the maintenance of peace and justice among nations as the
foundation for the ideals of freedom and well-being to which mankind aspires,

Reiterating that cooperation among all nations on the basis of respect for
the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of each State, including
the right of every people to choose freely its own socio-economic and political
system, is essential for the promotion of peace and development,

Reiterating that, in order to ensure the full implementation of the right
to development, the international cooperation should be conducive to an
improvement of relations among States as well as to their commitment to refrain
from conditioning their economic assistance to developing countries,

Considering that the efforts of the developing countries for their own
development should be supported by an increased flow of resources and by the
adoption of appropriate and substantive measures for creating an external
environment conducive to such development,

1. Reiterates its request that the Commission on Human Rights should
continue its current work on overall analysis with a view to further promoting
and strengthening human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the question
of the programme and working methods of the Commission, and on the overall
analysis of the alternative approaches and ways and means for improving the
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with
the provisions and ideas set forth in General Assembly resolution 32/130;

8/ See A/47/675-S/24816.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 22

2. Affirms that a primary aim of international cooperation in the field
of human rights is a life of freedom, dignity and peace for all peoples and for
every human being, that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interrelated and that the promotion and protection of one
category of rights should never exempt or excuse States from promoting and
protecting the others;

3. Reaffirms that equal attention and urgent consideration should be
given to the implementation, promotion and protection of civil and political
rights and of economic, social and cultural rights;

4. Reiterates once again that the international community should accord,
or continue to accord, priority to the search for solutions to mass and flagrant
violations of human rights of peoples and individuals affected by situations
such as those mentioned in paragraph 1 (e) of General Assembly
resolution 32/130, paying due attention also to other situations of violations
of human rights;

5. Notes that the questions mentioned in paragraph 4 of the present
resolution were discussed during the World Conference on Human Rights held at
Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993 and are referred to in the Vienna Declaration 4/
as obstacles still prevailing to the achievement of further progress in the
field of human rights;

6. Reaffirms that the right to development is an inalienable human right;

7. Reaffirms also that international peace and security are essential
elements for achieving the full realization of the right to development;

8. Recognizes that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interdependent;

9. Considers it necessary for all Member States to promote international
cooperation on the basis of respect for the independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity of each State, including the right of every people to
choose freely its own socio-economic and political system, with a view to
solving international economic, social and humanitarian problems;

10. Urges all States to cooperate with the Commission on Human Rights in
the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

11. Also urges all States to promote international cooperation which
contributes to the enhancement of the promotion and preservation of human
rights, unbiased by any political motivation or condition whatsoever;

12. Decides that the approaches to future work within the United Nations
system on human rights matters should take into account the content of the
Declaration on the Right to Development and the need for the implementation
thereof;

13. Decides to consider this question at its forty-ninth session.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 23

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Respect for the principles of national sovereignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of States in

their electoral processes

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the purposes of the United Nations to develop friendly
relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples and to take other appropriate measures to
strengthen universal peace,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Also recalling its resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, by which it
approved the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations,

Further recalling the principle enshrined in Article 2, paragraph 7, of the
Charter of the United Nations, which establishes that nothing contained in the
Charter shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in matters which are
essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State or shall require the
Members to submit such matters to settlement under the Charter,

Reaffirming the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples for independence,
territorial integrity, national unity and for liberation from colonial
domination and apartheid, and for the establishment of a society in which the
people, irrespective of race, colour or creed, will fully enjoy political and
other rights on a basis of equality and participate freely in the determination
of their destiny,

Also reaffirming the legitimacy of the struggle of all peoples under
colonial and foreign domination, particularly the Palestinian people, for the
exercise of their inalienable right to self-determination and national
independence, which will enable them to decide freely on their own future,

Recognizing that the principles of national sovereignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of any State should be respected in the
holding of elections,

Also recognizing that there is no single political system or single model
for electoral processes equally suited to all nations and their peoples, and
that political systems and electoral processes are subject to historical,
political, cultural and religious factors,

Convinced that the establishment of the necessary mechanisms and means to
guarantee full popular participation in electoral processes corresponds to
States,

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 24

Recalling its resolutions in this regard, in particular resolution 47/130
of 18 December 1992,

Welcoming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 4/ adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, in
which the Conference reaffirmed that the processes of promoting and protecting
human rights should be conducted in conformity with the purposes and principles
of the Charter of the United Nations,

1. Reiterates that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,
all peoples have the right, freely and without external interference, to
determine their political status and to pursue their economic, social and
cultural development, and that every State has the duty to respect that right in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter;

2. Reaffirms that it is the concern solely of peoples to determine
methods and to establish institutions regarding the electoral process, as well
as to determine the ways for its implementation according to their constitution
and national legislation, and that, consequently, States should establish the
necessary mechanisms and means to guarantee full popular participation in those
processes;

3. Also reaffirms that any activities that attempt, directly or
indirectly, to interfere in the free development of national electoral
processes, in particular in the developing countries, or that are intended to
sway the results of such processes, violate the spirit and letter of the
principles established in the Charter and in the Declaration on Principles of
International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations;

4. Further reaffirms that there is no universal need for the United
Nations to provide electoral assistance to Member States, except in special
circumstances such as cases of decolonization, in the context of regional or
international peace processes or at the request of specific sovereign States, by
virtue of resolutions adopted by the Security Council or the General Assembly in
each case, in strict conformity with the principles of sovereignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of States;

5. Urges all States to respect the principle of non-interference in the
internal affairs of States and the sovereign right of peoples to determine their
political, economic and social systems;

6. Strongly appeals to all States to refrain from financing or providing,
directly or indirectly, any other form of overt or covert support for political
parties or groups and from taking actions to undermine the electoral processes
in any country;

7. Condemns any act of armed aggression or threat or use of force against
peoples, their elected Governments or their legitimate leaders;

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 25

8. Reiterates that only the total eradication of apartheid and the
establishment of a non-racial, democratic society based on majority rule,
through the full and free exercise of universal suffrage, can lead to a just and
lasting solution to the situation in South Africa;

9. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of all peoples under colonial
and foreign domination, particularly of the Palestinian people, for the exercise
of their inalienable right to self-determination and national independence,
which will enable them to determine their political, economic and social system,
without interference;

10. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights at its fiftieth session to
continue giving priority to the review of the fundamental factors that
negatively affect the observance of the principles of national sovereignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of States in their electoral processes
and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, through the
Economic and Social Council;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution, under
the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Strengthening of United Nations action in the human rights field
through the promotion of international cooperation and the
importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth
of the human person and the equal rights of men and women and of nations large
and small, and its determination to promote social progress and better standards
of living in greater freedom,

Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations is to
develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of
equal rights and self-determination of peoples and to take other appropriate
measures to strengthen universal peace,

Bearing in mind also that one of the purposes of the United Nations is to
achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and
encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

Recalling that, in accordance with Article 55 of the Charter of the United
Nations, the Organization shall promote universal respect for, and observance
of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, with a view to the creation
of conditions of stability and well-being that are necessary for peaceful and
friendly relations among nations, based on respect for the principle of equal

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 26

rights and self-determination of peoples and that, in accordance with
Article 56, all Members pledge themselves to take joint and separate action in
cooperation with the Organization for the achievement of the purposes set forth
in Article 55,

Reiterating that Member States should continue to act in the human rights
field in conformity with the provisions of the Charter,

Desirous of achieving further progress in international cooperation in
promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Considering that such international cooperation should be based on the
principles embodied in international law, especially the Charter, as well as the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 6/ the International Covenants on Human
Rights 7/ and other relevant instruments,

Deeply convinced that United Nations action in this field should be based
not only on a profound understanding of the broad range of problems existing in
all societies but also on full respect for the political, economic and social
realities of each of them, in strict compliance with the purposes and principles
of the Charter and for the basic purpose of promoting and encouraging respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms through international cooperation,

Reaffirming its resolutions 45/163 of 18 December 1990, 46/129 of
17 December 1991 and 47/131 of 18 December 1992,

Bearing in mind its resolutions 2131 (XX) of 21 December 1965, 2625 (XXV)
of 24 October 1970 and 36/103 of 9 December 1981,

Taking into account Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/59 of
9 March 1993, 9/

Reaffirming the importance of ensuring the universality, objectivity and
non-selectivity of the consideration of human rights issues, as affirmed by the
World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,

Aware of the fact that the promotion, protection and full exercise of all
human rights and fundamental freedoms as legitimate concerns of the world
community should be guided by the principles of non-selectivity, impartiality
and objectivity and should not be used for political ends,

Affirming the importance of the objectivity, independence and discretion of
the special rapporteurs and representatives on thematic issues and countries, as
well as of the members of the working groups, in carrying out their mandate,

Underlining the obligation that Governments have to promote and protect
human rights and to carry out the responsibilities that they have undertaken

9/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993,
Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 27

under international law, especially the Charter, as well as various
international instruments in the field of human rights,

1. Reiterates that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,
all peoples have the right freely to determine, without external interference,
their political status and to pursue their economic, social and cultural
development, and that every State has the duty to respect that right within the
provisions of the Charter, including respect for territorial integrity;

2. Reaffirms that it is a purpose of the United Nations and the task of
all Member States, in cooperation with the Organization, to promote and
encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and to remain
vigilant with regard to violations of human rights wherever they occur;

3. Calls upon all Member States to base their activities for the
protection and promotion of human rights, including the development of further
international cooperation in this field, on the Charter, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights, 7/ the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 7/
and other relevant international instruments, and to refrain from activities
that are inconsistent with that international framework;

4. Considers that international cooperation in this field should make an
effective and practical contribution to the urgent task of preventing mass and
flagrant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and to the
strengthening of international peace and security;

5. Affirms that the promotion, protection and full realization of all
human rights and fundamental freedoms, as legitimate concerns of the world
community, should be guided by the principles of non-selectivity, impartiality
and objectivity, and should not be used for political ends;

6. Requests all human rights bodies within the United Nations system, as
well as the special rapporteurs and representatives, independent experts and
working groups, to take duly into account the contents of the present resolution
in carrying out their mandates;

7. Expresses its conviction that an unbiased and fair approach to human
rights issues contributes to the promotion of international cooperation as well
as to the effective promotion, protection and realization of human rights and
fundamental freedoms;

8. Stresses, in this context, the continuing need for impartial and
objective information on the political, economic and social situations and
events of all countries;

9. Invites Member States to consider adopting, as appropriate, within the
framework of their respective legal systems and in accordance with their
obligations under international law, especially the Charter, and international
human rights instruments, the measures that they may deem appropriate to achieve

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 28

further progress in international cooperation in promoting and encouraging
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;

10. Requests the Commission on Human Rights, at its fiftieth session, to
continue to examine ways and means to strengthen United Nations action in this
regard on the basis of the present resolution and of Commission resolution
1993/59;

11. Decides to consider this matter at its forty-ninth session under the
item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

United Nations Year for Tolerance

The General Assembly,

Recalling that the Charter of the United Nations affirms in its preamble
that to practise tolerance is one of the principles to be applied to attain the
ends pursued by the United Nations of preventing war and maintaining peace,

Recalling also that one of the purposes of the United Nations as set forth
in the Charter is the achievement of international cooperation in solving
international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian
character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for
fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or
religion,

Mindful of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 6/ and of the
International Covenants on Human Rights, 7/

Bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 4/ adopted
by the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,

Convinced that tolerance - the recognition and appreciation of others, the
ability to live together with and to listen to others - is the sound foundation
of any civil society and of peace,

Recalling its resolution 47/124 of 18 December 1992, in which, inter alia,
it invited the Economic and Social Council to consider at its session of 1993
the question of proclaiming 1995 the United Nations year for tolerance and to
transmit a recommendation to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session,

Recalling also resolution 5.6 of the General Conference of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, concerning the
proclamation of 1995 as the United Nations year for tolerance, 10/

10/ See United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
Records of the General Conference, Twenty-sixth Session, vol. 1: Resolutions.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 29

Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolution 1993/57 of
29 July 1993, in which the Council recommended that the General Assembly, at its
forty-eighth session, proclaim 1995 the United Nations year for tolerance,

Taking into account the note by the Secretary-General, 11/

Bearing in mind its decision 35/424 of 5 December 1980 and Economic and
Social Council resolution 1980/67 of 25 July 1980 concerning guidelines for
international years and anniversaries,

Noting that the preparation of the United Nations year for tolerance will
not involve any financial implications for the United Nations,

1. Proclaims 1995 the United Nations Year for Tolerance;

2. Recommends that the specialized agencies, regional commissions and
other organizations of the United Nations system consider in their respective
forums the contributions they could make to the success of the United Nations
Year for Tolerance;

3. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to assume the role of lead organization for the United Nations Year
for Tolerance;

4. Calls upon all Member States to cooperate with the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in the preparation of the
national and international programmes for the United Nations Year for Tolerance
and to participate actively in the implementation of the activities to be
organized within the framework of the Year;

5. Invites interested intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to exert efforts in their respective fields to contribute
adequately to the preparation of programmes for the United Nations Year for
Tolerance;

6. Requests the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to prepare, in accordance with its General Conference
resolution 5.6, a declaration on tolerance;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session an item entitled "Preparation and organization of the United Nations
Year for Tolerance".

11/ A/48/210-E/1993/89.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 30

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Human rights education decade

The General Assembly,

Guided by the fundamental and universal principles enshrined in the Charter
of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 6/

Reaffirming article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
according to which "education shall be directed to the full development of the
human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms",

Recalling the provisions of other international human rights instruments,
such as article 13 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights 7/ and article 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the
Child, 12/ that reflect the aims of the aforementioned article,

Convinced that human rights education is a universal priority in that it
contributes to a concept of development consistent with the dignity of the human
person, which must include consideration of the diversity of groups such as
children, women, youths, persons with disabilities, the ageing, indigenous
people, minorities and other groups,

Aware that human rights education involves more than providing information
but rather is a comprehensive life-long process by which people at all levels of
development and in all strata of society learn respect for the dignity of others
and the means and methods of ensuring that respect within a democratic society,

Taking into account the efforts made by educators and non-governmental
organizations in all parts of the world, as well as by intergovernmental
organizations, including the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, the International Labour Organisation and the United Nations
Children’s Fund, to promote education in accordance with the aforementioned
principles,

Considering the World Plan of Action on Education for Human Rights and
Democracy, adopted by the International Congress on Education for Human Rights
and Democracy, convened by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization at Montreal from 8 to 11 March 1993, according to which
"education for human rights and democracy is itself a human right, and a
prerequisite for the realization of human rights, democracy and social justice",

Aware of the experience in human rights education of United Nations peace-
building operations, including the United Nations Observer Mission in
El Salvador and the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia,

12/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 31

Taking into account Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/56 of
9 March 1993, 9/ in which the Commission recommended that knowledge of human
rights, both in its theoretical dimension and in its practical application,
should be established as a priority in educational policies,

Bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 4/ adopted
by the World Conference on Human Rights at Vienna on 25 June 1993, in particular
paragraphs 78 to 82,

1. Appeals to all Governments to step up their efforts to eradicate
illiteracy and to direct education towards the full development of the human
personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms;

2. Urges governmental and non-governmental educational agencies to
intensify their efforts to establish and implement programmes of human rights
education, as recommended in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action;

3. Notes the plan of action presented to the International Congress on
Education for Human Rights and Democracy, and recommends that Governments and
non-governmental organizations consider that plan in preparing national plans
for human rights education;

4. Requests the Commission on Human Rights, in cooperation with Member
States, human rights treaty-monitoring bodies, other appropriate bodies and
competent non-governmental organizations, to consider proposals for a United
Nations decade for human rights education, which should be incorporated by the
Secretary-General into a plan of action for such a decade and submitted, through
the Economic and Social Council, to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session with a view to the proclamation of a decade for human rights education;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to consider the establishment of a
voluntary fund for human rights education, with special provision for the
support of the human rights education activities of non-governmental
organizations, to be administered by the Centre for Human Rights of the United
Nations Secretariat;

6. Invites the specialized agencies and United Nations programmes to
develop suitable activities in their respective fields of competence to further
the objectives of human rights education;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the
attention of all members of the international community, and to
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations concerned with human rights
and education;

8. Calls upon international, regional and national non-governmental
organizations, in particular those concerned with women, labour, development and
the environment, as well as all other social justice groups, human rights
advocates, educators, religious organizations and the media, to increase their
involvement in formal and non-formal education in human rights and to cooperate

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 32

with the Centre for Human Rights in preparing for a United Nations decade for
human rights education;

9. Urges the existing human rights monitoring bodies to place particular
emphasis on the implementation by Member States of their international
obligation to promote human rights education;

10. Decides to consider this matter at its forty-ninth session under the
item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Elimination of all forms of religious intolerance

The General Assembly,

Recalling that all States have pledged themselves in the Charter of the
United Nations to promote and encourage universal respect for, and observance
of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to
race, sex, language or religion,

Recognizing that those rights derive from the inherent dignity of the human
person,

Reaffirming that discrimination against human beings on the grounds of
religion or belief constitutes an affront to human dignity and a disavowal of
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming its resolution 36/55 of 25 November 1981, by which it
proclaimed the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of
Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief,

Recalling its resolution 47/129 of 18 December 1992, in which it requested
the Commission on Human Rights to continue its consideration of measures to
implement the Declaration,

Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/25 of
5 March 1993, 9/

Reaffirming the call of the World Conference on Human Rights for all
Governments to take all appropriate measures in compliance with their
international obligations and with due regard to their respective legal systems
to counter intolerance and related violence based on religion or belief,
including practices of discrimination against women and the desecration of
religious sites, recognizing that every individual has the right to freedom of
thought, conscience, expression and religion,

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 33

Recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 1992/17 of
21 February 1992 13/ and Economic and Social Council decision 1992/226 of
20 July 1992, by which the mandate of the Special Rapporteur appointed to
examine incidents and governmental actions in all parts of the world that are
incompatible with the provisions of the Declaration and to recommend remedial
measures as appropriate was extended for three years,

Welcoming the appointment of Mr. Abdelfattah Amor as Special Rapporteur of
the Commission on Human Rights, and calling on all Governments to cooperate with
the Special Rapporteur to enable him to carry out his mandate fully,

Recognizing that it is desirable to enhance the promotional and public
information activities of the United Nations in matters relating to freedom of
religion or belief and that both Governments and non-governmental organizations
have an important role to play in this domain,

Emphasizing that non-governmental organizations and religious bodies and
groups at every level have an important role to play in the promotion of
tolerance and the protection of freedom of religion or belief,

Conscious of the importance of education in ensuring tolerance of religion
and belief,

Alarmed that serious instances, including acts of violence, of intolerance
and discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief occur in many parts of
the world, as evidenced in the report of the former Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights, Mr. Angelo Vidal d’Almeida Ribeiro,

Reaffirming the dismay and condemnation expressed by the World Conference
on Human Rights at the continued occurrence of gross and systematic violations
and situations that constitute serious obstacles to the full enjoyment of all
human rights, including religious intolerance,

Believing that further efforts are therefore required to promote and
protect the right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief and to
eliminate all forms of hatred, intolerance and discrimination based on religion
or belief,

1. Reaffirms that freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief is
a human right derived from the inherent dignity of the human person and
guaranteed to all without discrimination;

2. Urges States to ensure that their constitutional and legal systems
provide full guarantees of freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief,
including the provision of effective remedies where there is intolerance or
discrimination based on religion or belief;

13/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992, Supplement
No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 34

3. Recognizes that legislation alone is not enough to prevent violations
of human rights, including the right to freedom of religion or belief;

4. Urges all States therefore to take all appropriate measures to combat
hatred, intolerance and acts of violence, including those motivated by religious
extremism, and to encourage understanding, tolerance and respect in matters
relating to freedom of religion or belief;

5. Also urges States to ensure that, in the course of their official
duties, members of law enforcement bodies, civil servants, educators and other
public officials respect different religions and beliefs and do not discriminate
against persons professing other religions or beliefs;

6. Calls upon all States to recognize, as provided in the Declaration on
the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on
Religion or Belief, the right of all persons to worship or assemble in
connection with a religion or belief, and to establish and maintain places for
those purposes;

7. Also calls upon all States in accordance with their national
legislation to exert utmost efforts to ensure that religious places and shrines
are fully respected and protected;

8. Considers it desirable to enhance the promotional and public
information activities of the United Nations in matters relating to freedom of
religion or belief and to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to this end
in the World Public Information Campaign for Human Rights;

9. Invites the Secretary-General to continue to give high priority to the
dissemination of the text of the Declaration, in all the official languages of
the United Nations, and to take all appropriate measures to make the text
available for use by the United Nations information centres, as well as by other
interested bodies;

10. Encourages the continuing efforts on the part of the Special
Rapporteur appointed to examine incidents and governmental actions in all parts
of the world that are incompatible with the provisions of the Declaration and to
recommend remedial measures as appropriate;

11. Encourages Governments to give serious consideration to inviting the
Special Rapporteur to visit their countries so as to enable him to fulfil his
mandate even more effectively;

12. Recommends that the promotion and protection of the right to freedom
of thought, conscience and religion be given appropriate priority in the work of
the United Nations programme of advisory services in the field of human rights,
including work on the drafting of basic legal texts in conformity with
international instruments on human rights and taking into account the provisions
of the Declaration;

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 35

13. Notes with interest the adoption by the Human Rights Committee of a
general comment on article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, 7/ dealing with freedom of thought, conscience and religion;

14. Welcomes the efforts of non-governmental organizations to promote the
implementation of the Declaration;

15. Requests the Secretary-General to invite interested non-governmental
organizations to consider what further role they could envisage playing in the
implementation of the Declaration and in its dissemination in national and local
languages;

16. Urges all States to consider disseminating the text of the Declaration
in their respective national languages and to facilitate its dissemination in
national and local languages;

17. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue its consideration
of measures to implement the Declaration;

18. Decides to consider the question of the elimination of all forms of
religious intolerance at its forty-ninth session under the item entitled "Human
rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Strengthening of the Centre for Human Rights of
the Secretariat

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 44/135 of 15 December 1989, 45/180 of
21 December 1990, 46/118 and 46/111 of 17 December 1991, and 47/127 of
18 December 1992, and bearing in mind all relevant resolutions of the Economic
and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights,

Considering that the promotion of universal respect for and observance of
human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the basic purposes of the United
Nations enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and of high importance to
the Organization,

Recalling that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action 4/ stresses
the importance of strengthening the Centre for Human Rights,

Recalling also that the Secretary-General, in his reports on the work of
the Organization for 1992 14/ and 1993, 15/ stated that "the Charter of

14/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 1 (A/47/1), para. 100.

15/ A/48/1.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 36

the United Nations places the promotion of human rights as one of our priority
objectives, along with promoting development and preserving international peace
and security", and that "in the course of 1993, the activities of the Centre for
Human Rights at Geneva underwent a significant expansion in the five main areas
of its work",

Noting that the difficult financial situation of the Centre for Human
Rights of the Secretariat has created considerable obstacles in implementing the
various procedures and mechanisms, negatively influenced the servicing by the
Secretariat of the bodies concerned and impaired the quality and precision of
the reporting,

1. Supports the efforts of the Secretary-General to enhance the role and
importance of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat as the coordinating
unit within the United Nations system of bodies dealing with the promotion and
the protection of human rights;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to make additional proposals to
increase further the resources of the human rights programme in 1994-1995, so as
to enable the Centre for Human Rights fully to discharge its duties in
implementing all the mandates assigned to it by the General Assembly and other
legislative bodies;

3. Welcomes the recommendations of the World Conference on Human Rights
concerning the strengthening of the Centre for Human Rights, as contained in the
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action;

4. Takes note of the conclusion of the Committee for Programme and
Coordination on the proposed programme budget 1994-1995 in which it recommends
the approval of the programme narratives of section 21 of the proposed programme
budget for the biennium 1994-1995;

5. Takes note also of the statement in the report of the Secretary-
General on the implications of organizational changes 16/ that he would
propose to use the remaining vacant posts now available in the Secretariat in
the light of new initiatives and emerging mandates and priorities;

6. Requests the Secretary-General and Member States to ensure that
appropriate additional resources from within the existing and future regular
budgets of the United Nations are accorded to the Centre for Human Rights to
enable it to carry out, in full and on time, the mandates contained in the
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action without diverting resources from
development programmes and activities of the United Nations;

7. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit an interim report to the
Commission on Human Rights at its fiftieth session and a final report to the
General Assembly at its forty-ninth session on the strengthening of the Centre
for Human Rights and on the measures taken to implement the present resolution.

16/ See A/C.5/47/2 and Corr.1, para. 23.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 37

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Right to development

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the Declaration on the Right to Development, 17/ which it
proclaimed at its forty-first session,

Recalling its resolutions 45/97 of 14 December 1990, 46/123 of
17 December 1991 and 47/123 of 18 December 1992, and those of the Commission on
Human Rights relating to the right to development, and taking note of Commission
resolution 1993/22 of 4 March 1993, 9/

Recalling also the report on the Global Consultation on the Realization of
the Right to Development as a Human Right, 18/

Recalling further the principles proclaimed in the Rio Declaration on
Environment and Development of 14 June 1992, 19/

Reiterating the importance of the right to development for all countries,
in particular the developing countries,

Mindful that the Commission on Human Rights entered a new phase at its
forty-ninth session in its consideration of this matter, which is directed
towards the implementation and further enhancement of the right to development,

Reaffirming the need for an evaluation mechanism so as to ensure the
promotion, encouragement and reinforcement of the principles contained in the
Declaration on the Right to Development, and welcoming, in this regard, the
establishment of a working group on the right to development by the Commission
on Human Rights at its forty-ninth session,

Recalling that the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14
to 25 June 1993, examined the relationship between development and the enjoyment
by everyone of economic, social and cultural rights as well as civil and
political rights, recognizing the importance of creating the conditions whereby
everyone may enjoy those rights as set out in the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 7/

17/ Resolution 41/128, annex.

18/ E/CN.4/1990/Rev.1.

19/ See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), vol I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference,
resolution 1, annex I.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 38

Recalling also that, in order to promote development, equal attention and
urgent consideration should be given to the implementation, promotion and
protection of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights,

Welcoming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 4/ adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights, which reaffirms the right to development as a
universal and inalienable right and an integral part of fundamental human rights
and reaffirms that the human person is the central subject of development,

Having considered the comprehensive report of the Secretary-General
prepared pursuant to resolution 47/123, 20/

1. Reaffirms the importance of the right to development for all
countries, in particular the developing countries;

2. Takes note with interest of the comprehensive report of the
Secretary-General prepared in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 47/123; 20/

3. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the Commission on Human
Rights at its fiftieth session concrete proposals on the effective
implementation and promotion of the Declaration on the Right to Development,
taking into account the views expressed on the issue at the forty-ninth session
of the Commission as well as any further comments and recommendations that may
be submitted on the basis of paragraph 10 of Commission resolution 1993/22;

4. Takes note with appreciation of the convening of the first meeting of
the Working Group on the Right to Development from 8 to 19 November 1993 at
Geneva;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue coordination of the various
activities with regard to the implementation of the Declaration;

6. Urges all relevant bodies of the United Nations system, particularly
the specialized agencies, when planning their programmes of activities, to take
due account of the Declaration and to make efforts to enhance their cooperation
in its application;

7. Also urges the regional commissions and regional intergovernmental
organizations to convene meetings of governmental experts and representatives of
non-governmental and grass-roots organizations for the purpose of seeking
agreements for the implementation of the Declaration through international
cooperation;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to inform the Commission on Human
Rights at its fiftieth session and the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session of the activities of the organizations, programmes and agencies of the
United Nations system for the implementation of the Declaration;

20/ E/CN.4/1993/16.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 39

9. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to continue to make
proposals to the General Assembly, through the Economic and Social Council, on
the future course of action on the question, in particular on practical measures
for the implementation and enhancement of the Declaration, taking into account
the conclusions and recommendations of the Global Consultation on the
Realization of the Right to Development as a Human Right and the report of the
Working Group on the Right to Development;

10. Notes with satisfaction the results of the World Conference on Human
Rights, which reaffirm that all human rights are universal, indivisible,
interdependent and interrelated and that democracy, development and respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent and mutually
reinforcing;

11. Decides to consider this question at its forty-ninth session under the
item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for
improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as set
forth in its Charter, is the achievement of international cooperation in solving
international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian
character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for
fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or
religion,

Recalling its resolution 45/164 of 18 December 1990, in which it proclaimed
1993 as the International Year of the World’s Indigenous People, with a view to
strengthening international cooperation for the solution of problems faced by
indigenous people in the areas, inter alia, of human rights, the environment,
development, education and health,

Acknowledging the significance of the Year in raising international
awareness of the contribution of, and problems faced by, indigenous people
throughout the world, and aware of the need to build on the results and lessons
of the Year,

Recognizing the importance of consulting with indigenous people, the need
for financial support from the international community, including support from
within the United Nations system and the specialized agencies, the need for a
strategic planning framework and the need for adequate coordination and
communication channels,

Expressing its appreciation of the work undertaken by the Coordinator of
the Year, the Centre for Human Rights, the Goodwill Ambassador,

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 40

Ms. Rigoberta Menchu, and the Working Group on Indigenous Populations of the
Commission on Human Rights,

Recognizing the value and the diversity of the cultures and the forms of
social organization of the world’s indigenous people,

Welcoming the report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, 21/ in which the vital role of indigenous people and their
communities in the interrelationship between the natural environment and its
sustainable development is recognized, including their holistic traditional
scientific knowledge of their lands, natural resources and environment,

Recognizing the importance of considering the establishment of a permanent
forum for indigenous people in the framework of an international decade,

Noting the recommendations included in the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action 4/ adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights to proclaim an
international decade of the world’s indigenous people, to begin from 1994,
including action-oriented programmes to be decided upon in partnership with
indigenous people,

1. Proclaims the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People,
commencing on 10 December 1994, the period from 1 January to 9 December 1994 to
be set aside for planning for the Decade in partnership with indigenous people;

2. Decides that the goal of the Decade should be the strengthening of
international cooperation for the solution of problems faced by indigenous
people in such areas as human rights, the environment, development, education
and health;

3. Also decides that, beginning in the first year of the Decade, one day
of every year shall be observed as the International Day of Indigenous People;

4. Requests the Commission on Human Rights, at its fiftieth session, to
invite the Working Group on Indigenous Populations to identify at its next
session an appropriate date for this purpose;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to appoint the Assistant Secretary-
General for Human Rights as the Coordinator of the Decade;

6. Requests the Coordinator to coordinate the programme of activities for
the Decade in full collaboration and consultation with Governments, competent
bodies, the International Labour Organization and other specialized agencies of
the United Nations, and indigenous and non-governmental organizations;

21/ Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 41

7. Requests competent United Nations bodies and specialized agencies to
designate focal points for coordination with the Centre for Human Rights of
activities related to the Decade;

8. Invites Governments to ensure that activities and objectives for the
Decade are planned and implemented on the basis of full consultation and
collaboration with indigenous people;

9. Requests specialized agencies, regional commissions and other
organizations of the United Nations system to consider with Governments and in
partnership with indigenous people how they can contribute to the success of the
Decade, through appropriate channels, and to transmit their recommendations to
the Economic and Social Council;

10. Appeals to the specialized agencies, regional commissions, financial
and development institutions and other relevant organizations of the United
Nations system to increase their efforts to take into special account the needs
of indigenous people in their budgeting and in their programming;

11. Invites indigenous organizations and other interested non-governmental
organizations to consider the contributions they can make to the success of the
Decade, with a view to presenting them to the Working Group on Indigenous
Populations;

12. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to ask the Working Group on
Indigenous Populations to identify possible programmes and projects in
connection with the Decade and to submit them through the Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to the Commission for
its consideration;

13. Recommends that adequate human and financial resources be made
available to the Centre for Human Rights in support of its activities related to
indigenous people, within the overall framework of strengthening its activities
envisaged in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a Voluntary Fund for the
Decade, and authorizes him to accept and administer voluntary contributions from
Governments, intergovernmental and, non-governmental organizations and other
private institutions and individuals for the purpose of funding projects and
programmes during the Decade;

15. Urges Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations and invites indigenous organizations to contribute to the
Voluntary Fund for the Decade to be established by the Secretary-General;

16. Invites Governments, competent United Nations bodies and specialized
agencies and other intergovernmental institutions, including financial
institutions, to consider providing additional resources to finance the
attachment of suitable staff, including indigenous staff, to the Centre for
Human Rights on a regionally balanced basis;

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 42

17. Encourages Governments to establish national committees or other more
permanent structures involving indigenous representatives to plan activities for
the Decade;

18. Requests that the meeting to be convened in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 46/128 to review the International Year of the World’s
Indigenous People also consider preparations for the Decade, giving full
participation to indigenous people, particularly with regard to the elaboration
of a detailed plan of action, including an evaluation mechanism, and the
establishment of a funding plan for the Decade, and that the meeting report to
the Working Group on Indigenous Populations;

19. Urges the competent United Nations organs, programmes and specialized
agencies, in planning activities for the Decade, to examine how existing
programmes and resources might be utilized to benefit indigenous people more
effectively, including through the exploration of ways in which indigenous
perspectives and activities can be included or enhanced;

20. Requests the Commission on Human Rights at its fiftieth session to
give priority consideration to the establishment of a permanent forum for
indigenous people in the United Nations system;

21. Requests the Secretary-General to give all the assistance necessary to
ensure the success of the Decade;

22. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a preliminary report to
it at its forty-ninth session and a final report at its fiftieth session on a
comprehensive programme of action for the Decade;

23. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth
session an item entitled "Programme of activities of the International Decade of
the World’s Indigenous People".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

Enhancing the effectiveness of the principle
of periodic and genuine elections

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 44/146 of 15 December 1989, 45/150 of
18 December 1990, and especially 46/137 of 17 December 1991 and 47/138 of
18 December 1992, as well as the annex to Commission on Human Rights resolution
1989/51 of 7 March 1989, 22/

Recalling also the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, especially
the recognition therein that assistance provided upon the request of Governments

22/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1989,
Supplement No. 2 (E/1989/20), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 43

for the conduct of free and fair elections, including assistance in the human
rights aspects of elections and public information about elections, is of
particular importance in the strengthening and building of institutions relating
to human rights and the strengthening of a pluralistic civil society, and that
special emphasis should be given to measures that assist in achieving those
goals; 23/

Reaffirming that electoral assistance is provided only at the specific
request of the Member State concerned,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General, 24/

Noting the high level of requests for electoral assistance by Member
States,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-
General 24/ on United Nations activities aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of
the principle of periodic and genuine elections;

2. Commends the electoral assistance provided to Member States at their
request by the Organization, requests that such assistance continue on a case-
by-case basis in accordance with the proposed guidelines on electoral
assistance, recognizing that the fundamental responsibility for ensuring free
and fair elections lies with Governments, and also requests the Electoral
Assistance Unit to inform Member States on a regular basis about the requests
received, the responses given to those requests and the nature of the assistance
provided;

3. Requests that the Organization attempt to ensure, before undertaking
to provide electoral assistance to a requesting State, that there is adequate
time to organize and carry out an effective mission for providing such
assistance, that conditions exist to allow a free and fair election and that
provisions can be made for adequate and comprehensive reporting of the results
of the mission;

4. Recommends that the United Nations, in order to ensure the
continuation and consolidation of the democratization process in Member States
requesting assistance, provide assistance before and after elections have taken
place, including needs-assessment missions aimed at recommending programmes
which might contribute to the consolidation of the democratization process;

5. Recalls the establishment by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations Trust Fund for Electoral Observation and the establishment by the
Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme of a separate fund,
the Trust Fund for Technical Assistance to Electoral Processes, and calls upon
Member States to consider contributing to the Funds;

23/ A/CONF/157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. II, para. 67.

24/ A/47/668 and Add.1.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 44

6. Stresses the importance of coordination by the focal point within the
United Nations system, commends the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat
for the advisory services and technical assistance it provides and the
Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development of the
Secretariat and the United Nations Development Programme for the technical
assistance they provide to requesting Member States, and requests the focal
point to strengthen its collaboration with the Centre for Human Rights,
including through an exchange of personnel when appropriate, and with the
Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development and the United
Nations Development Programme, and inform them of requests presented in the area
of electoral assistance;

7. Recommends that the Organization continue and strengthen its
coordination of election preparation and observation with intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations which have an interest in such activities;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Electoral Assistance
Unit with adequate human and financial resources, under the regular budget of
the Organization and within existing resources, to allow it to carry out its
mandate;

9. Also requests the Secretary-General to reinforce the Centre for Human
Rights through the redeployment of resources and personnel, so as to enable it
to answer, in close coordination with the Electoral Assistance Unit, the
increasing number of requests from Member States for advisory services in the
area of electoral assistance;

10. Recommends that, on the basis of the guidelines proposed in his
report 24/ and on the basis of experience acquired over the last two years, the
Secretary-General provide a revised set of guidelines for consideration at its
next session;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session on the implementation of its resolution 47/138 and the
present resolution, in particular on the status of requests from Member States
for electoral assistance and verification, and on the validity of the guidelines
in the light of experience.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

Strengthening of the rule of law

The General Assembly,

Recalling that the achievement of international cooperation in promoting
and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all
without distinction as to race, sex, language and religion is one of the
purposes of the United Nations,

Recalling also that, by adopting the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 6/ Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in cooperation with

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 45

the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of
human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Firmly convinced that, as stressed in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the rule of law is an essential factor in the protection of human
rights,

Convinced also that through their own national legal and judicial systems
States must provide appropriate civil, criminal and administrative remedies for
violations of human rights,

Aware of the need for the implementation of strengthened advisory services
and technical assistance activities in the field of human rights,

Mindful of the significant role played by national institutions in the
promotion and protection of universally recognized human rights and fundamental
freedoms in their respective countries,

Convinced that the Centre for Human Rights should play an important role in
coordinating system-wide attention for human rights,

Recalling Commission on Human Rights resolutions 1992/51 of 3 March 1992
and 1993/50 of 9 March 1993, both entitled "Strengthening of the rule of law",

Noting with appreciation that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action, 4/ adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,
recommended that priority be given to national and international action to
promote democracy, development and human rights,

1. Endorses the recommendation of the World Conference on Human Rights
that a comprehensive programme be established within the United Nations and
under the coordination of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat, with a
view to helping States in the task of building and strengthening adequate
national structures which have a direct impact on the overall observance of
human rights and the maintenance of the rule of law; 25/

2. Expresses its conviction that such a programme should be able to
provide, upon the request of the interested Government, technical and financial
assistance for the implementation of national plans of action as well as
specific projects in reforming penal and correctional establishments, education
and training of lawyers, judges and security forces in human rights, and any
other sphere of activity relevant to the good functioning of the rule of law;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with the recommendation
contained in section II, paragraph 70, of the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action, 4/ to submit concrete proposals to the General Assembly at its forty-
ninth session containing alternatives for the establishment, structure,
operational modalities and funding of the proposed programme, taking into

25/ A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. II, para. 69.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 46

account existing programmes and activities already undertaken by the Centre for
Human Rights;

4. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to remain actively seized of
this question, with a view to further elaborating the outline of the proposed
programme;

5. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its forty-
ninth session in the light of the proposals of the Secretary-General.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIV

International Year of the World’s Indigenous People, 1993

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations set forth in
the Charter is the achievement of international cooperation in solving
international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian
character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for
fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to sex, race, language or
religion,

Recognizing and respecting the value and the diversity of cultures, as well
as the cultural heritage and the forms of social organization of the world’s
indigenous people,

Recalling its resolution 45/164 of 18 December 1990, in which it proclaimed
1993 the International Year of the World’s Indigenous People, with a view to
strengthening international cooperation for the solution of problems faced by
indigenous communities in areas such as human rights, the environment,
development, education and health,

Conscious of the need to improve the economic, social and cultural
situation of the indigenous people with full respect for their distinctiveness
and their own initiatives,

Appreciative of the contributions made to the Voluntary Fund for the Year
opened by the Secretary-General,

Noting the establishment of the fund for the development of indigenous
peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean as one kind of support for the
objectives of the Year,

Noting the recommendation of the World Conference on Human Rights, held at
Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, that an International Decade of the World’s
Indigenous People should be proclaimed, 26/

26/ Ibid., chap. III, sect. II, para. 32.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 47

Noting also the need to continue strengthening the initiatives taken as a
result of the Year,

Reiterating its request that the Subcommission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities complete its consideration of the
draft universal declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples,

1. Calls upon the United Nations system and Governments that have not yet
done so to develop policies in support of the objectives and the theme of the
International Year of the World’s Indigenous People and to strengthen the
institutional framework for their implementation;

2. Recommends to all thematic rapporteurs, special representatives,
independent experts and working groups that they pay particular attention,
within the framework of their mandates, to the situation of indigenous people;

3. Urges the Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights to continue to
solicit actively the cooperation of specialized agencies, regional commissions,
financial and development institutions and other relevant organizations of the
United Nations system for the promotion of a programme of activities in support
of the objectives and the theme of the Year;

4. Appeals to the specialized agencies, regional commissions and
financial and development institutions of the United Nations system to continue
to increase their efforts to take into special account the needs of indigenous
people in their budgeting and in their programming;

5. Requests:

(a) That reports of the three technical meetings, first provided for in
paragraph 8 of General Assembly resolution 46/128 of 17 December 1991, be
included in the final assessment proceedings provided for in paragraph 12 of the
same resolution and that their conclusions be included in the report of the
Coordinator for the International Year of the World’s Indigenous People to the
General Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

(b) That the Commission on Human Rights convene, from within existing
resources, a meeting of participating parties in the programmes and projects of
the Year, in the three days preceding the twelfth session of the Working Group
on Indigenous Populations, to report to the Working Group on the conclusions
that can be drawn from the activities of the Year for the elaboration of a
detailed plan of action and the establishment of a funding plan for an
International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People;

6. Stresses the relevance for the solution of problems faced by
indigenous communities of the recommendations contained in chapter 26 of
Agenda 21, 27/ including their implementation;

27/ See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 48

7. Notes with satisfaction the holding at Manila of a Global Youth Earth-
saving Summit, or "Global Yes", which by its reaffirmation of the role of
traditional cultures in the preservation of the environment underscored the
right to cultural survival;

8. Welcomes the proposal for a follow-up gathering of indigenous youth in
1995, an "Indigenous Youth Cultural Olympics", flowing from the Year, to be held
in conjunction with the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People
and the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, to reaffirm the value of
traditional cultures, folk arts and rituals as effective expressions of
respective national identities and as a foundation for a shared vision for
peace, freedom and equality;

9. Stresses that the governmental and intergovernmental activities
undertaken within the context of the Year and beyond should take fully into
account the development needs of indigenous people and that the Year should
contribute to enhancing and facilitating the coordination capabilities of Member
States for collecting and analysing information;

10. Notes that there is a continuing need within the United Nations system
to aggregate data specific to indigenous people by means of enhancing and
facilitating the coordination capabilities of Member States for collecting and
analysing such data;

11. Requests the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities, at its forty-sixth session, to complete its
consideration of the draft universal Declaration on the rights of indigenous
peoples and to submit its report to the Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-
first session;

12. Requests the Coordinator of the International Year of the World’s
Indigenous People, in the report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session on the activities developed and the results achieved within the context
of the Year, to include an account of the response of the United Nations system
to the needs of indigenous people;

13. Expresses its appreciation of the work undertaken for the
International Year of the World’s Indigenous People by Governments, the
Coordinator of the Year, the International Labour Organization, the Goodwill
Ambassador, Ms. Rigoberta Menchu Tum, indigenous and non-governmental
organizations, the Commission on Human Rights and the Working Group on
Indigenous Populations.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 49

DRAFT RESOLUTION XV

National institutions for the promotion and
protection of human rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling the relevant resolutions concerning national institutions for the
protection and promotion of human rights, notably its resolutions 41/129 of
4 December 1986 and 46/124 of 17 December 1991 and Commission on Human Rights
resolutions 1987/40 of 10 March 1987, 1988/72 of 10 March 1988, 1989/52 of
7 March 1989, 1990/73 of 7 March 1990, 1991/27 of 5 March 1991, 1992/54 of
3 March 1992 and 1993/55 of 9 March 1993,

Emphasizing the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 6/
the International Covenants on Human Rights 7/ and other international
instruments for promoting respect for, and observance of, human rights and
fundamental freedoms,

Affirming that priority should be accorded to the development of
appropriate arrangements at the national level to ensure the effective
implementation of international human rights standards,

Convinced of the significant role that institutions at the national level
can play in promoting and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms and
in developing and enhancing public awareness of those rights and freedoms,

Recognizing that the United Nations can play a catalytic role in assisting
the development of national institutions by acting as a clearing-house for the
exchange of information and experience,

Mindful in this regard of the guidelines on the structure and functioning
of national and local institutions for the protection and promotion of human
rights endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 33/46 of
14 December 1978,

Welcoming the growing interest shown worldwide in the creation and
strengthening of national institutions expressed during the Regional Preparatory
Meeting for Africa for the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Tunis from
2 to 6 November 1992, the Regional Preparatory Meeting for Latin America and the
Caribbean for the Preparatory Conference, held at San José from 18 to
22 January 1993, the Regional Preparatory Meeting for Asia for the Conference,
held at Bangkok from 29 March to 2 April 1993, the Commonwealth Workshop on
National Human Rights Institutions, held at Ottawa from 30 September to
2 October 1992 and the Workshop for the Asia and Pacific Region on Human Rights
Issues, held at Jakarta from 26 to 28 January 1993, and manifested in the
decisions announced recently by several Member States to establish national
institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights,

Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 4/ in which was
reaffirmed the important and constructive role played by national institutions
for the promotion and protection of human rights, in particular in their

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 50

advisory capacity to the competent authorities, their role in remedying human
rights violations, in the dissemination of human rights information, and
education in human rights,

Noting the diverse approaches adopted throughout the world for the
protection and promotion of human rights at the national level, emphasizing the
universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights, and
emphasizing and recognizing the value of such approaches to promoting universal
respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms,

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the updated report of the Secretary-
General on national institutions for the protection and promotion of human
rights, prepared in accordance with General Assembly resolution 44/64 of
8 December 1989;

2. Reaffirms the importance of developing, in accordance with national
legislation, effective national institutions for the promotion and protection of
human rights and of ensuring the pluralism of their membership and their
independence;

3. Encourages Member States to establish or, where they already exist, to
strengthen national institutions for the protection and promotion of human
rights and to incorporate those elements in national development plans;

4. Also encourages national institutions for the promotion and protection
of human rights established by Member States to prevent and combat all
violations of human rights as enumerated in the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action and relevant international instruments;

5. Requests the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat to continue
its efforts to enhance cooperation between the United Nations and national
institutions, particularly in the field of advisory services and technical
assistance and of information and education, including within the framework of
the world public information campaign for human rights;

6. Also requests the Centre for Human Rights to establish, upon the
request of States concerned, United Nations centres for human rights
documentation and training, and to do so on the basis of established procedures
for the use of available resources within the Voluntary Fund for Advisory
Services and Technical Assistance in the Field of Human Rights;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to respond favourably to requests from
Member States for assistance in the establishment and strengthening of national
institutions for the protection and promotion of human rights as part of the
programme of advisory services and technical cooperation in the field of human
rights, as well as national centres for human rights documentation and training;

8. Encourages all Member States to take appropriate steps to promote the
exchange of information and experience concerning the establishment and
effective operation of such national institutions;

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 51

9. Affirms the role of national institutions as agencies for the
dissemination of human rights materials and other public information activities
prepared or organized under the auspices of the United Nations;

10. Welcomes the organization under the auspices of the Centre for Human
Rights of a follow-up meeting at Tunis in December 1993 with a view, in
particular, to examining ways and means to promote technical assistance for the
cooperation and strengthening of national institutions, and to continue to
examine all issues relating to the question of national institutions;

11. Welcomes the Principles relating to the status of national
institutions, annexed to the present resolution;

12. Encourages the establishment and strengthening of national
institutions having regard to these principles and recognizing that it is the
right of each State to choose the framework which is best suited to its
particular needs at the national level;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

Annex

Principles relating to the status of national institutions

Competence and responsibilities

1. A national institution shall be vested with competence to promote and
protect human rights.

2. A national institution shall be given as broad a mandate as possible, which
shall be clearly set forth in a constitutional or legislative text, specifying
its composition and its sphere of competence.

3. A national institution shall, inter alia, have the following
responsibilities:

(a) To submit to the Government, Parliament and any other competent body,
on an advisory basis either at the request of the authorities concerned or
through the exercise of its power to hear a matter without higher referral,
opinions, recommendations, proposals and reports on any matters concerning the
promotion and protection of human rights; the national institution may decide to
publicize them; these opinions, recommendations, proposals and reports, as well
as any prerogative of the national institution, shall relate to the following
areas:

(i) Any legislative or administrative provisions, as well as provisions
relating to judicial organizations, intended to preserve and extend
the protection of human rights; in that connection, the national
institution shall examine the legislation and administrative

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 52

provisions in force, as well as bills and proposals, and shall make
such recommendations as it deems appropriate in order to ensure that
these provisions conform to the fundamental principles of human
rights; it shall, if necessary, recommend the adoption of new
legislation, the amendment of legislation in force and the adoption or
amendment of administrative measures;

(ii) Any situation of violation of human rights which it decides to take
up;

(iii) The preparation of reports on the national situation with regard to
human rights in general, and on more specific matters;

(iv) Drawing the attention of the Government to situations in any part of
the country where human rights are violated and making proposals to it
for initiatives to put an end to such situations and, where necessary,
expressing an opinion on the positions and reactions of the
Government;

(b) To promote and ensure the harmonization of national legislation
regulations and practices with the international human rights instruments to
which the State is a party, and their effective implementation;

(c) To encourage ratification of the above-mentioned instruments or
accession to those instruments, and to ensure their implementation;

(d) To contribute to the reports which States are required to submit to
United Nations bodies and committees, and to regional institutions, pursuant to
their treaty obligations and, where necessary, to express an opinion on the
subject, with due respect for their independence;

(e) To cooperate with the United Nations and any other organization in the
United Nations system, the regional institutions and the national institutions
of other countries that are competent in the areas of the promotion and
protection of human rights;

(f) To assist in the formulation of programmes for the teaching of, and
research into, human rights and to take part in their execution in schools,
universities and professional circles;

(g) To publicize human rights and efforts to combat all forms of
discrimination, in particular racial discrimination, by increasing public
awareness, especially through information and education and by making use of all
press organs.

Composition and guarantees of independence and pluralism

1. The composition of the national institution and the appointment of its
members, whether by means of an election or otherwise, shall be established in
accordance with a procedure which affords all necessary guarantees to ensure the
pluralist representation of the social forces (of civilian society) involved in

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 53

the promotion and protection of human rights, particularly by powers which will
enable effective cooperation to be established with, or through the presence of,
representatives of:

(a) Non-governmental organizations responsible for human rights and
efforts to combat racial discrimination, trade unions, concerned social and
professional organizations, for example, associations of lawyers, doctors,
journalists and eminent scientists;

(b) Trends in philosophical or religious thought;

(c) Universities and qualified experts;

(d) Parliament;

(e) Government departments (if they are included, these representatives
should participate in the deliberations only in an advisory capacity).

2. The national institution shall have an infrastructure which is suited to
the smooth conduct of its activities, in particular adequate funding. The
purpose of this funding should be to enable it to have its own staff and
premises, in order to be independent of the Government and not be subject to
financial control which might affect its independence.

3. In order to ensure a stable mandate for the members of the institution,
without which there can be no real independence, their appointment shall be
effected by an official act which shall establish the specific duration of the
mandate. This mandate may be renewable, provided that the pluralism of the
institution’s membership is ensured.

Methods of operation

Within the framework of its operation, the national institution shall:

(a) Freely consider any questions falling within its competence, whether
they are submitted by the Government or taken up by it without referral to a
higher authority, on the proposal of its members or of any petitioner;

(b) Hear any person and obtain any information and any documents necessary
for assessing situations falling within its competence;

(c) Address public opinion directly or through any press organ,
particularly in order to publicize its opinions and recommendations;

(d) Meet on a regular basis and whenever necessary in the presence of all
its members after they have been duly convened;

(e) Establish working groups from among its members as necessary, and set
up local or regional sections to assist it in discharging its functions;

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 54

(f) Maintain consultation with the other bodies, whether jurisdictional or
otherwise, responsible for the promotion and protection of human rights (in
particular ombudsmen, mediators and similar institutions);

(g) In view of the fundamental role played by the non-governmental
organizations in expanding the work of the national institutions, develop
relations with the non-governmental organizations devoted to promoting and
protecting human rights, to economic and social development, to combating
racism, to protecting particularly vulnerable groups (especially children,
migrant workers, refugees, physically and mentally disabled persons) or to
specialized areas.

Additional principles concerning the status of commissions
with quasi-jurisdictional competence

A national institution may be authorized to hear and consider complaints
and petitions concerning individual situations. Cases may be brought before it
by individuals, their representatives, third parties, non-governmental
organizations, associations of trade unions or any other representative
organizations. In such circumstances, and without prejudice to the principles
stated above concerning the other powers of the commissions, the functions
entrusted to them may be based on the following principles:

(a) Seeking an amicable settlement through conciliation or, within the
limits prescribed by the law, through binding decisions or, where necessary, on
the basis of confidentiality;

(b) Informing the party who filed the petition of his rights, in
particular the remedies available to him, and promoting his access to them;

(c) Hearing any complaints or petitions or transmitting them to any other
competent authority within the limits prescribed by the law;

(d) Making recommendations to the competent authorities, especially by
proposing amendments or reforms of the laws, regulations and administrative
practices, especially if they have created the difficulties encountered by the
persons filing the petitions in order to assert their rights.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVI

Internally displaced persons

The General Assembly,

Deeply disturbed by the large number of internally displaced persons
throughout the world, and conscious of the serious problem this is creating for
the international community,

Recalling the relevant norms of international human rights instruments as
well as of international humanitarian law,

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 55

Conscious of the human rights as well as the humanitarian dimensions of the
problem of internally displaced persons,

Conscious also of the need for the United Nations system to comprehensively
gather information on the issues of the protection of the human rights of and
assistance to internally displaced persons,

Welcoming the initiative of the Commission on Human Rights on this question
and, in particular, its resolution 1992/73 of 5 March 1992, by which it
requested the Secretary-General to appoint a representative to study the human
rights issues related to internally displaced persons, and Commission resolution
1993/95 of 11 March 1993, by which it requested the Secretary-General to mandate
his representative for two years to continue his work aimed at a better
understanding of the problems faced by internally displaced persons and their
possible long-term solutions,

Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 4/ which calls
for a comprehensive approach by the international community with regard to
refugees and displaced persons,

Welcoming the support provided to the representative of the Secretary-
General by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the
Department for Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat and other
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations,

Welcoming also the decision by the Executive Committee of the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to extend, on a case-by-case basis
and under specific circumstances, protection and assistance to the internally
displaced,

Recalling the comprehensive study of the representative of the Secretary-
General to the Commission on Human Rights 28/ and the useful suggestions and
recommendations contained therein,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the representative of
the Secretary-General on internally displaced persons; 29/

2. Encourages the representative, through dialogue with Governments, to
continue his review of the needs for international protection of and assistance
to internally displaced persons, including his compilation and analysis of
existing rules and norms;

3. Invites the representative to present suggestions and recommendations
with regard to ways and means, including the institutional aspects, of providing
effective protection of and assistance to internally displaced persons;

28/ E/CN.4/1993/35, annex.

29/ A/48/579, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 56

4. Calls upon all Governments to continue to facilitate the activities of
the representative, encourages them to give serious consideration to inviting
the representative to visit their countries, so as to enable him to study and
analyse more fully the issues involved, and thanks those Governments which have
already done so;

5. Urges all concerned United Nations agencies and organizations to
provide all possible assistance and support to the representative in the
implementation of his programme of activities;

6. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fiftieth
session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVII

Plight of street children

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 47/126 of 18 December 1992,

Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/81 of
10 March 1993, 9/

Welcoming the special attention given to the rights of children by the
World Conference on Human Rights, and in particular part I, paragraph 21, of the
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 4/

Recalling the Convention on the Rights of the Child 30/ as a major
contribution to the protection of the rights of all children, including street
children,

Reaffirming that children are a particularly vulnerable section of society
whose rights require special protection and that children living under
especially difficult circumstances, such as street children, deserve special
attention, protection and assistance from their families and communities and as
part of national efforts and international cooperation,

Recognizing that all children have the right to health, shelter and
education, to an adequate standard of living and to freedom from violence and
harassment,

Deeply concerned about the growing number of street children worldwide and
the squalid conditions in which these children are often forced to live,

Profoundly concerned that the killing of and violence against street
children threatens the most fundamental right of all, the right to life,

30/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 57

Alarmed at continuing serious offences of this nature against street
children,

Recognizing the responsibility of Governments to investigate all cases of
offences against children and to punish offenders,

Recognizing also that legislation per se is not enough to prevent
violations of human rights, including those of street children, and that
Governments should implement their laws and complement legislative measures with
effective action, inter alia, in the fields of law enforcement and in the
administration of justice,

Welcoming the efforts made by some Governments to take effective action to
address the question of street children,

Welcoming also the publicity given to and the increased awareness of the
plight of street children, and the achievements of non-governmental
organizations in promoting their rights and in providing practical assistance to
improve their situation, and expressing its appreciation of their continued
efforts,

Welcoming further the valuable work of the United Nations Children’s Fund
and its National Committees in reducing the suffering of street children,

Noting with appreciation the important work carried out in this field by
the United Nations, in particular the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the
Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the sale of children,
child prostitution and child pornography and the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme,

Bearing in mind the diverse causes of the emergence and marginalization of
street children, including poverty, rural-to-urban migration, unemployment,
broken families, intolerance and exploitation, and that such causes are often
aggravated and their solution made more difficult by serious socio-economic
difficulties,

Bearing in mind that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action urged
all States, with the support of international cooperation, to address the acute
problem of children in especially difficult circumstances and that national and
international mechanisms and programmes should be strengthened for the defence
and protection of children, including street children,

Recognizing that the prevention and solution of certain aspects of this
phenomenon could also be facilitated in the context of economic and social
development,

1. Expresses grave concern at the continued growth in the number of
incidents worldwide and at reports of street children being involved in or
affected by serious crime, drug abuse, violence and prostitution;

2. Urges Governments to continue actively to seek comprehensive solutions
to tackle the problems of street children and to take measures to restore their

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 58

full participation in society and to provide, inter alia, adequate nutrition,
shelter, health care and education;

3. Strongly urges Governments to respect fundamental human rights,
particularly the right to life, and to take urgent measures to prevent the
killing of street children and to combat torture and violence against street
children;

4. Emphasizes that strict compliance with the provisions of the
Convention on the Rights of the Child 30/ constitutes a significant step towards
solving the problems of street children, and calls upon all States that have not
done so to become parties to the Convention as a matter of priority;

5. Calls upon the international community to support, through effective
international cooperation, the efforts of States to improve the situation of
street children, and encourages States parties to the Convention on the Rights
of the Child, in preparing their reports to the Committee on the Rights of the
Child, to bear this problem in mind and to consider requesting, or indicating
their need for, technical advice and assistance for initiatives aimed at
improving the situation of street children, in accordance with article 45 of the
Convention;

6. Reiterates the invitation to the Committee on the Rights of the Child
to consider the possibility of a general comment on street children;

7. Recommends that the Committee on the Rights of the Child and other
relevant treaty-monitoring bodies bear this growing problem in mind when
examining reports from States parties;

8. Invites Governments, United Nations bodies and organizations and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to cooperate and to ensure
greater awareness and more effective action to solve the problem of street
children by, among other measures, supporting development projects that can have
a positive impact on the situation of street children;

9. Calls upon special rapporteurs, special representatives and working
groups of the Commission on Human Rights and the Subcommission on the Prevention
of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, within their mandates, to pay
particular attention to the plight of street children;

10. Decides to consider the question further at its forty-ninth session
under the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVIII

Human rights in the administration of justice

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/120 of 17 December 1991,

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 59

Bearing in mind the principles embodied in articles 3, 5, 9, 10 and 11 of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 6/ and the relevant provisions of the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 7/ and its Optional
Protocols, 31/ in particular article 6 of the Covenant, which explicitly
states that no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life and prohibits the
imposition of the death penalty for crimes committed by persons below eighteen
years of age,

Bearing in mind also the relevant principles embodied in the Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punishment 32/ and in the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, 33/

Mindful of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women, 34/ in particular of the obligation of States to treat men and
women equally in all stages of procedures in courts and tribunals,

Calling attention to the numerous international standards in the field of
the administration of justice, such as the Body of Principles for the Protection
of All Persons under Any Form of Detention or Imprisonment, 35/ the
Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of
Power 36/ and the safeguards guaranteeing protection of the rights of those
facing the death penalty, 37/ as well as the Basic Principles on the
Independence of the Judiciary, 38/ the Basic Principles on the Role of
Lawyers, 39/ the Model Agreement on the Transfer of Foreign Prisoners and
recommendations on the treatment of foreign prisoners, 38/ as well as the Code

31/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex, and resolution 44/128, annex.

32/ Resolution 39/46, annex.

33/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

34/ Resolution 34/180, annex.

35/ Resolution 43/173, annex.

36/ Resolution 40/34, annex.

37/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1984,
Supplement No. 1 (E/1984/84), resolution 1984/50.

38/ See Seventh United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the
Treatment of Offenders, Milan, 26 August-6 September 1985: report prepared by
the Secretariat (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.86.IV.1), chap. I,
sect. D.

39/ See Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the
Treatment of Offenders, Havana, 27 August-7 September 1990: report prepared by
the Secretariat (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.91.IV.2), chap. I,
sect. B.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 60

of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials, 40/ the Basic Principles on the Use
of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials, 39/ the Standard Minimum
Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, 41/ the Basic Principles for the
Treatment of Prisoners, 42/ the United Nations Rules for the Protection of
Juveniles Deprived of their Liberty, 43/ the Guidelines on the Role of
Prosecutors, 44/ the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for Non-Custodial
Measures (the Tokyo Rules), 45/ the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for
the Administration of Juvenile Justice (the Beijing Rules), 46/ the Model
Treaty on the Transfer of Proceedings in Criminal Matters 47/ and the Model
Treaty on the Transfer of Supervision of Offenders Conditionally Sentenced or
Conditionally Released, 48/

Recalling its resolution 47/133 of 18 December 1992, by which it adopted
the Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance,

Welcoming the important work of the Commission on Human Rights and of the
Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities in
the field of human rights in the administration of justice, in particular
regarding the independence of the judiciary, the independence of judges and
lawyers, the right to a fair trial, habeas corpus, human rights and states of
emergency, the question of arbitrary detention, the human rights of juveniles in
detention, the privatization of prisons and the question of the impunity of
perpetrators of violations of human rights,

40/ Resolution 34/169, annex.

41/ See Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.88.XIV.1).

42/ Resolution 45/111, annex.

43/ Resolution 45/113, annex.

44/ See Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the
Treatment of Offenders, Havana, 27 August-7 September 1990: report prepared by
the Secretariat (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.91.IV.2), chap. C,
resolution 26.

45/ Resolution 45/110, annex.

46/ Resolution 40/33, annex.

47/ See Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the
Treatment of Offenders, Havana, 27 August-7 September 1990: report prepared by
the Secretariat (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.91.IV.2),
chap. I, A, 12.

48/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1990,
Supplement No. 10 (E/1990/31).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 61

Noting resolution 1993/39 of the Subcommission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, entitled "Independence of the
judiciary",

Welcoming Commission on Human Rights resolutions 1993/32 of 5 March 1993,
entitled "The administration of justice and human rights", and 1993/41 of
5 March 1993, entitled "Human rights in the administration of justice",

Welcoming also the important work of the Commission on Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice in the field of human rights in the administration of justice,
as reflected in section III of Economic and Social Council resolution 1993/34 of
27 July 1993,

Recognizing that the rule of law and the proper administration of justice
are prerequisites for sustainable economic and social development,

Recognizing also the central role of the administration of justice in the
promotion and protection of human rights,

Aware of the importance of national and regional intergovernmental human
rights bodies and institutions in the promotion and protection of human rights,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on human rights in
the administration of justice, 49/

Mindful of the recommendations relating to human rights in the
administration of justice contained in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action 4/ adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from
14 to 25 June 1993,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on
human rights in the administration of justice; 49/

2. Reaffirms the importance of the full and effective implementation of
all United Nations standards on human rights in the administration of justice;

3. Acknowledges that it is the primary responsibility of all Governments
to promote and protect human rights;

4. Acknowledges also that the administration of justice, including law
enforcement and prosecutorial agencies and, especially, an independent judiciary
and legal profession in full conformity with applicable standards contained in
international human rights instruments, are essential to the full and
non-discriminatory realization of human rights and indispensable to the
processes of democracy and sustainable development;

5. Once again calls upon all States to pay due attention to United
Nations norms and standards on human rights in the administration of justice in
developing national and regional strategies for their practical implementation

49/ A/48/575.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 62

and to spare no effort in providing for effective legislative and other
mechanisms and procedures, as well as for adequate financial resources to ensure
more effective implementation of these norms and standards;

6. Appeals to Governments to include in their national development plans
the administration of justice as an integral part of the development process and
to allocate adequate resources for the provision of legal-aid services with a
view to the promotion and protection of human rights;

7. Urges the Secretary-General to consider favourably requests for
assistance by States in the field of the administration of justice within the
framework of the United Nations programme of advisory services and technical
cooperation in the field of human rights, and to strengthen coordination of
activities in this field;

8. Strongly recommends, in this context, that the establishment of a
comprehensive programme within the system of advisory services and technical
assistance be considered in order to help States in the task of building and
strengthening adequate national structures that have a direct impact on the
overall observance of human rights and the maintenance of the rule of law; such
a programme should provide, upon the request of the interested Governments,
technical and financial assistance to national projects in reforming penal and
correctional establishments, education and training of lawyers, judges and
security forces in human rights, and any other sphere of activity relevant to
the good functioning of the rule of law;

9. Acknowledges that institutions concerned with the administration of
justice should be properly funded, and an increased level of both technical and
financial assistance should be provided by the international community;

10. Appeals to the international community to provide assistance, at the
request of the Governments concerned, for the provision of legal-aid services
with a view to ensuring the promotion, protection and full enjoyment of human
rights;

11. Invites the international community to respond favourably to requests
for financial and technical assistance made by institutions concerned with the
promotion and protection of human rights, with a view to enhancing and
strengthening their national capacities to promote and protect human rights
consistent with the standards set forth in international and other human rights
instruments;

12. Acknowledges the important role of the regional commissions,
specialized agencies and United Nations institutes in the area of human rights
and crime prevention and criminal justice, and of other organizations of the
United Nations system, as well as intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, including national professional associations concerned with
promoting United Nations standards in this field;

13. Invites the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to pay
particular attention to questions relating to the administration of justice,
with special emphasis on the effective implementation of norms and standards;

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 63

14. Decides to consider the question of human rights in the administration
of justice at its fiftieth session under the item entitled "Human rights
questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIX

Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National
or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities

Recalling its resolution 47/135 of 18 December 1992, by which it adopted
the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic,
Religious and Linguistic Minorities,

Conscious of the need effectively to promote and protect the rights of
persons belonging to minorities as set out in the Declaration,

Noting the importance of an even more effective implementation of
international human rights instruments with regard to the rights of all persons,
including those belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities,

Welcoming Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/24 of 5 March 1993 on
the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities,

Noting that resolutions 1993/42 and 1993/43 adopted by the Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities on 26 August 1993 are
to be considered by the Commission on Human Rights at its fiftieth session,

Aware of the provisions of article 27 of the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights 7/ concerning the rights of persons belonging to
ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities,

Acknowledging that the United Nations has an increasingly important role to
play regarding the protection of minorities by, inter alia, taking due account
of the Declaration,

Concerned by the growing frequency and severity of disputes and conflicts
concerning minorities in many countries, and their often tragic consequences,

Affirming that effective measures and the creation of favourable conditions
for the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to national
or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, ensuring effective
non-discrimination and equality for all, contribute to the prevention and
peaceful solution of human rights problems and situations involving minorities,

Considering that the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities contribute
to political and social stability and peace, and enrich the cultural heritage of
society as a whole of the States in which such persons live,

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 64

Reaffirming the obligation of States to ensure that persons belonging to
minorities may exercise fully and effectively all human rights and fundamental
freedoms without any discrimination and in full equality before the law in
accordance with the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National
or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities,

Welcoming initiatives aiming at disseminating information on the
Declaration and at promoting understanding thereof,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the effective
promotion of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons belonging to National or
Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, 50/

Mindful of the recommendations contained in part II, paragraphs 25 to 27,
of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action 4/ adopted unanimously by the
World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the effective
promotion of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons belonging to National or
Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities; 50/

2. Urges States and the international community to promote and protect
the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities as set out in the Declaration, including through the facilitation of
their full participation in all aspects of the political, economic, social,
religious and cultural life of society and in the economic progress and
development in their country;

3. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to examine ways and means to
promote and protect effectively the rights of persons belonging to minorities as
set out in the Declaration;

4. Calls upon the Secretary-General to provide through the Centre for
Human Rights, at the request of Governments concerned and as part of the
programme of advisory services and technical assistance of the Centre, qualified
expertise on minority issues and human rights, as well as on the prevention and
resolution of disputes, to assist in existing or potential situations involving
minorities;

5. Appeals to States to take all the necessary legislative and other
measures to promote and give effect, as appropriate, to the principles of the
Declaration;

6. Appeals also to States to make bilateral and multilateral efforts, as
appropriate, in order to protect the rights of persons belonging to national or
ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities in their countries in accordance
with the Declaration;

50/ A/48/509 and Corr.1 and Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 65

7. Urges all treaty bodies and special representatives, special
rapporteurs and working groups of the Commission on Human Rights and the
Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to
give due regard to the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to minorities, as set forth in the Declaration, as appropriate, within
their mandates;

8. Encourages intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to
continue to contribute to the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities;

9. Invites the Secretary-General to continue the dissemination of
information on the Declaration and the promotion of understanding thereof,
including, as appropriate, in the context of the training of United Nations
personnel;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution under
the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XX

Human rights and mass exoduses

The General Assembly,

Mindful of its general humanitarian mandate under the Charter of the United
Nations to promote and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms,

Noting that the report of the Secretary-General entitled "An Agenda for
Peace" 51/ identifies the protection of human rights as an important element
of peace, security and economic well-being, and highlights the importance of
preventive diplomacy,

Deeply disturbed by the increasing scale and magnitude of exoduses of
refugees and displacements of population in many regions of the world and by the
human suffering of millions of refugees and displaced persons,

Conscious of the fact that human rights violations are one of the multiple
and complex factors causing mass exoduses of refugees and displaced persons,

Deeply preoccupied by the increasingly heavy burden being imposed,
particularly upon developing countries with limited resources of their own and
upon the international community as a whole, by these sudden mass exoduses and
displacements of population,

51/ A/47/277-S/24111.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 66

Stressing the need for strengthening international cooperation aimed at
averting new massive flows of refugees while providing durable solutions to
actual refugee situations,

Reaffirming its resolution 41/70 of 3 December 1986, in which it endorsed
the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report of the Group of
Governmental Experts on International Cooperation to Avert New Flows of
Refugees,

Recalling its resolution 46/127 of 17 December 1991 and Commission on Human
Rights resolution 1993/70 of 10 March 1993, 9/ as well as all previous relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Commission,

Noting that the Secretary-General, in his report on the strengthening of
the coordination of humanitarian emergency assistance of the United
Nations, 52/ states that in complex emergencies, humanitarian assistance is
essential but must be complemented by measures to address the root causes of
such emergencies, and that the establishment of the inter-agency consultation on
early warning serves the purposes of both prevention and preparedness,

Noting also that the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has specifically acknowledged the direct
relationship between the observance of human rights standards, refugee movements
and problems of protection,

1. Recalls its endorsement, in its resolution 41/70, of the
recommendations and conclusions contained in the report of the Group of
Governmental Experts on International Cooperation to Avert New Flows of
Refugees, including, inter alia, the call upon all States to promote human
rights and fundamental freedoms and to refrain from denying these to individuals
in their population because of nationality, ethnicity, race, religion or
language;

2. Once again invites all Governments and intergovernmental and
humanitarian organizations concerned to intensify their cooperation with and
assistance to worldwide efforts to address the serious problems resulting from
mass exoduses of refugees and displaced persons, and also the causes of such
exoduses;

3. Requests all Governments to ensure the effective implementation of the
relevant international instruments, in particular in the field of human rights
and humanitarian law, as this would contribute to averting new massive flows of
refugees and displaced persons;

4. Requests all United Nations bodies, including the United Nations human
rights treaty bodies, the specialized agencies and governmental,
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to cooperate fully with
all mechanisms of the Commission and, in particular, to provide them with all
relevant and accurate information in their possession on the human rights

52/ A/47/595.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 67

situations creating or affecting refugees and displaced persons within their
mandates;

5. Welcomes the recommendation in Commission on Human Rights resolution
1993/70 that special rapporteurs, special representatives and working groups
studying situations of violation of human rights pay attention to problems
resulting in mass exoduses of populations and, where appropriate, report and
make relevant recommendations to the Commission;

6. Notes that the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has specifically acknowledged the direct
relationship between the observance of human rights standards, refugee
movements, problems of protection and solutions;

7. Welcomes the contributions of the High Commissioner to the
deliberations of international human rights bodies, and encourages her to seek
ways to make these contributions even more effective;

8. Also welcomes the statement made by the High Commissioner at the
forty-ninth session of the Commission on Human Rights, on 3 March 1993, in which
she emphasized the need for early response by the international community to
human rights situations that threaten to generate refugees and displaced
persons, or which impede their voluntary return;

9. Encourages States that have not already done so to accede to the 1951
Convention relating to the Status of Refugees 53/ and the Protocol thereto of
1967; 54/

10. Takes note with appreciation of the emphasis placed by the
Secretary-General in his report to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh
session on the need to develop the capacity of the United Nations for early
warning and preventive diplomacy to help deter humanitarian crises; 55/

11. Reiterates, in this regard, its previous resolutions on the question
of human rights and mass exoduses, and requests the Secretary-General, in the
further development of the capacity of the Secretariat for early warning and
preventive diplomacy, to pay particular attention to international cooperation
to avert new flows of refugees;

12. Notes, in this connection, that mass movements of populations are
caused by multiple and complex factors, which indicates that early warning
requires an intersectoral and multidisciplinary approach;

13. Encourages the Secretary-General especially to continue to discharge
the task described in the report of the Group of Governmental Experts on

53/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No. 2545.

54/ Ibid., vol. 606, No. 8791.

55/ A/47/595.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 68

International Cooperation to Avert New Flows of Refugees, including the
continuous monitoring of all potential outflows, and to implement the
recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit contained in its report on the
coordination of activities related to early warning of possible refugee
flows; 56/

14. Urges the Secretary-General to attach high priority and to allocate
the necessary resources from the regular budget of the United Nations to the
consolidation and strengthening of the system for undertaking early-warning
activities in the humanitarian area by, inter alia, the designation of the
Department of Humanitarian Affairs as the focal point for early warning in this
area and strengthened coordination between relevant offices of the Secretariat
concerned with early warning and organizations of the United Nations system, for
the purpose of ensuring, inter alia, that effective action is taken to identify
human rights abuses that contribute to mass outflows or persons;

15. Welcomes the decision by the Administrative Committee on Coordination
to establish a regular United Nations inter-agency early-warning consultation
related to possible flows of refugees and displaced persons, based on the
sharing and analysis of relevant information between United Nations bodies and
the development of collective recommendations for action to alleviate,
inter alia, the possible causes of new flows of refugees and displaced persons;

16. Also welcomes the decision by the Administrative Committee on
Coordination to designate the Department of Humanitarian Affairs as the focal
point of the United Nations inter-agency early-warning consultation;

17. Urges the Department of Humanitarian Affairs to take the necessary
steps to function effectively as the focal point of the inter-agency
early-warning consultation;

18. Urges all the bodies involved in the inter-agency consultation to
cooperate fully in, and devote the necessary resources to, the successful
operation of the consultation;

19. Invites the Commission on Human Rights to keep the question of human
rights and mass exoduses under review with a view to supporting the
early-warning arrangement instituted by the Secretary-General to avert new
massive flows of refugees and displaced persons;

20. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session on the strengthened role that he is playing in undertaking
early-warning activities, especially in the areas of human rights and
humanitarian assistance, as well as on any further developments relating to the
recommendations contained in the report of the Group of Governmental Experts on
International Cooperation to Avert New Flows of Refugees and the recommendations
of the Joint Inspection Unit; 56/

56/ A/45/649, annex.

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 69

21. Invites the Secretary-General to include in his report to the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session detailed information on the programmatic,
institutional, administrative, financial and managerial efforts instituted to
enhance the capacity of the United Nations to avert new flows of refugees and to
tackle the root causes of such outflows;

22. Decides to continue its consideration of the question of human rights
and mass exoduses at its fiftieth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XXI

Human rights and scientific and technological progress

The General Assembly,

Noting that scientific and technological progress is one of the decisive
factors in the development of human society,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, 6/ the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights, 7/ the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 7/ and the
Declaration on Social Progress and Development, 57/

Reaffirming the importance of its resolution 45/95 of 14 December 1990 by
which it adopted guidelines for the regulation of computerized personnel data
files, and its resolution 46/119 of 17 December 1991 by which it adopted the
Principles for the Protection of Persons with Mental Illness and the Improvement
of Mental Health Care,

Welcoming with satisfaction resolution 1993/91 of 10 March 1993 of the
Commission on Human Rights entitled "Human rights and bioethics", and its
decision 1993/113 of 10 March 1993 entitled "Question of the follow-up to the
guidelines for the regulation of computerized personal files",

Welcoming the relevant paragraphs of the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action, 4/

Aware that everyone had the right to enjoy the benefits of scientific
progress and its applications,

Reaffirming the need to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and
the dignity of the human person in the conditions of scientific and
technological progress,

Noting that certain advances, notably in the biomedical and life sciences
as well as in information technology, may have potentially adverse consequences
for the integrity, dignity and human rights of the individual, and that illicit

57/ Resolution 2541 (XXIV).

/...



A/48/632/Add.2
English
Page 70

dumping of toxic and dangerous substances and waste potentially constitutes a
serious threat to the human rights, the life and health of every one,

Considering also that the human being is in the centre of social and
economic development,

Conscious that modern science and technology give the possibility to create
material conditions for the prosperity of society and for the thorough
development of the human person,

Recognizing the need for international cooperation so that all mankind can
benefit from the achievements of scientific and technological progress and that
their use in favour of economic and social progress is to the benefit of all,

Convinced of the need to develop life science ethics both nationally and
internationally,

1. Calls upon all Member States to ensure that the achievements of
scientific and technological progress and the intellectual potential of mankind
are used for promoting and encouraging universal respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms;

2. Also calls upon Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure
that the results of science and technology are used only for the benefit of the
human being and do not lead to the disturbance of the ecological environment,
that is, inter alia, measures against the illicit dumping of toxic and dangerous
products and waste;

3. Emphasizes the fact that many advances in scientific knowledge and
technology in health, education, housing and other social spheres should be
readily available to the populations as the heritage of humanity, with a view to
sustainable development, taking into account the need to protect intellectual
property rights;

4. Requests the specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies to
inform the Secretary-General of the activities and programmes carried out to
ensure development of life and technical sciences respectful of human rights, in
order to contribute to the reports of the Secretary-General requested in
resolution 1993/91 and decision 1993/113 of the Commission on Human Rights;

5. Decides to consider the question of human rights and scientific and
technological progress at its fiftieth session under the item entitled "Human
rights questions".

-----


