





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/48/L.50
16 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 42

THE SITUATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Colombia,
Comoros, Costa Rica, Djibouti, Egypt, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Lithuania,
Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab

Emirates and Yemen: draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolutions 46/242 of 25 August 1992 and 47/121 of
18 December 1992 and all relevant resolutions of the Security Council regarding
the situation in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina,

Reaffirming once again that, as the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a
sovereign, independent State and a Member of the United Nations, it is entitled
to all rights provided for in the Charter of the United Nations, including the
right to self-defence under Article 51 thereof,

Gravely concerned that the unprovoked armed hostilities and aggression
continue against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the relevant
resolutions of the Security Council remain unimplemented,

Recalling the report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination, 1/ in which the Committee "notes with great concern that links
existed between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and
Serbian militias and paramilitary groups responsible for massive, gross and

1/ A/48/18. To be issued in final form as Official Records of the
General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/48/18).

93-71330 (E) 161293 /...



A/48/L.50
English
Page 2

systematic violations of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Croatian
territories controlled by Serbs", 2/

Condemning the continuing hostilities by the Bosnian Serbs, particularly
their abhorrent policy of "ethnic cleansing",

Alarmed also at extremist Bosnian Croat military elements for their
aggressive acts against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina,

Alarmed at the collusion between Serbian forces and extremist Bosnian Croat
elements and others to seek the dismemberment of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, in clear violation of the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations, and in total disregard of the relevant resolutions of the General
Assembly and those of the Security Council,

Deploring the non-compliance with the relevant Security Council
resolutions, especially by the Bosnian Serb Party,

Recalling the principles enunciated in its resolutions and the relevant
resolutions of the Security Council, as well as those adopted by the
International Conference on the former Yugoslavia,

Reaffirming its determination to have the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina maintain its independence, unity, and territorial integrity, and
noting, in accordance with Article 24 of the Charter, the responsibility of the
Security Council in that regard,

Reaffirming its determination to prevent acts of genocide and crimes
against humanity,

Reaffirming once again its total and complete rejection of the acquisition
of territory through the use of force and the abhorrent practice of "ethnic
cleansing",

Stressing that the continuation of aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina is
a serious impediment to the peace process,

Bearing in mind the obligation of all States to act in conformity with the
principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter,

Stressing that the full implementation of Security Council resolutions
concerning the United Nations Protected Areas in the territory of the Republic
of Croatia is of significant importance for the security, territorial integrity
and stability of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina,

Noting that the International Court of Justice in its Order of
13 September 1993 in the case concerning application of the Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (Bosnia and Herzegovina v.
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)) indicated as a provisional measure that "the

2/ Ibid., para. 537.

/...



A/48/L.50
English
Page 3

Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) should
immediately, in pursuance of its undertaking in the Convention on the Prevention
and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 9 December 1948, take all measures
within its power to prevent commission of the crime of genocide", 3/

Further noting the Order of the International Court of Justice of
13 September 1993, in which it stated that "the perilous situation demands ...
[the] immediate and effective implementation of those [provisional]
measures", 4/

Commending the work of the Commission of Experts established pursuant to
Security Council resolution 780 (1992), of 6 October 1992 and noting with
interest the first and second interim reports of the Commission of Experts, 5/

Expressing its concern about the continuing siege of Sarajevo and other
Bosnian cities and "safe areas" which endanger the well-being and safety of
their inhabitants,

Aware, in the context of the character of Sarajevo as a multicultural,
multi-ethnic and multireligious centre, of the need to preserve its plurality
and avoid its further destruction,

Conscious that the grave situation in the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina continues to be a threat to international peace and security,

1. Reaffirms the principles enunciated in its resolutions and the
relevant resolutions of the Security Council and those adopted by the
International Conference on the former Yugoslavia pertaining to the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina;

2. Demands that all parties implement immediately, and scrupulously
maintain in good faith, a cease-fire and agree to cease all hostilities
throughout the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to create an
atmosphere conducive to the resumption of peace negotiations within the
framework of the International Conference on the former Yugoslavia;

3. Reaffirms that the consequences of "ethnic cleansing" will not be
accepted by the international community and that those who have seized and by
"ethnic cleansing" and by the use of force must relinquish those lands, in
conformity with norms of international law;

3/ Order of the International Court of Justice of 13 September 1993, case
concerning application of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the
Crime of Genocide (Bosnia and Herzegovina v. Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro)), para. 37, A (1).

4/ Ibid., para. 59.

5/ S/25274 and S/26545.

/...



A/48/L.50
English
Page 4

4. Condemns the continued violation of the international border between
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia by Serbian
forces, and thereby requests the Security Council to take all necessary measures
in implementation of its resolution 769 (1992) of 9 August 1992;

5. Requests the Security Council to follow and immediately implement its
resolution 838 (1993) of 10 June 1993 to ensure that the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) immediately cease the supply of military
arms, equipment and services to Bosnian Serb paramilitary units, as demanded in
Security Council resolution 819 (1993) of 16 April 1993;

6. Demands that the Bosnian Serb party lift forthwith the siege of
Sarajevo and other "safe areas", as well as other besieged Bosnian towns, and
urges the Secretary-General to direct the United Nations Protection Force to
take necessary measures, in accordance with relevant Security Council
resolutions, for the protection of the "safe areas";

7. Demands that, as a means of bringing about the cessation of
hostilities and to facilitate delivery of humanitarian assistance, in accordance
with paragraphs 5 and 9 of Security Council resolution 836 (1993) of
6 June 1993, the Bosnian Serb party withdraw all its heavy weaponry and forces
to areas outside the city of Sarajevo and other "safe areas", to a distance
wherefrom they cease to constitute a menace to their security and that of their
inhabitants, and are to be monitored by United Nations military observers, and
urges all parties to agree to implement further confidence-building measures;

8. Reaffirms once again the right of all refugees and displaced persons
to voluntarily return to their homes in safety and dignity;

9. Commends the ongoing efforts of the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Protection Force and other
international humanitarian agencies, and notes with the utmost appreciation
those individuals that have shown exemplary bravery and courage, and those who
have made the ultimate sacrifice in carrying out their duties;

10. Urges the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
as part of its humanitarian assistance programme, to provide appropriate
assistance to facilitate cultural exchanges between Sarajevo and the
international community and to facilitate the delivery and installation of a
reliable communication system in Sarajevo for the use of the civilian
population;

11. Urges the Secretary-General to take immediate action to reopen Tuzla
airport in order to facilitate the receipt and distribution of international
humanitarian aid, consistent with the provisions of Security Council resolution
770 (1992) of 13 August 1992;

12. Demands that all concerned facilitate the unhindered flow of
humanitarian assistance, including the provision of water, electricity, fuel and
communication, in particular to the "safe areas" in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and,
in this context, urges the Security Council to implement fully its resolution

/...



A/48/L.50
English
Page 5

770 (1992) to ensure the free flow of humanitarian assistance, particularly, to
the "safe areas";

13. Commends all States, and in particular the States bordering on the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the other Danube
riparian States, for the measures they have taken to comply with the mandatory
sanctions imposed by the Security Council against the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and urges all States to continue their
vigilant enforcement of those sanctions measures;

14. Condemns vigorously the violations of the human rights of the Bosnian
people and of international humanitarian law committed by parties to the
conflict, especially those committed as policy by Serbia and Montenegro and the
Bosnian Serbs, who have done so flagrantly and on a massive scale;

15. Urges the Security Council, in fulfilling its responsibility under
Article 24 of the Charter, to take all appropriate steps to uphold and restore
fully the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity
of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in cooperation with States Members of
the United Nations and the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina;

16. Deeply alarmed by the continuing systematic abuses committed against
Albanians, Bosnians, Hungarians and Croatians, and others in Kosovo, Sandzak and
Vojvodina, respectively, by the authorities of Serbia and Montenegro and, in
that regard, condemns the decision of those authorities not to renew the mandate
of the monitoring missions of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe in those regions;

17. Further urges the Security Council to give all due consideration, on
an urgent basis, to exempt the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the arms
embargo as imposed on the former Yugoslavia under Security Council resolution
713 (1991) of 25 September 1991;

18. Urges Member States, as well as other members of the international
community, from all regions, to extend their cooperation to the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina in exercise of its inherent right of individual and
collective self-defence in accordance with Article 51 of Chapter VII of the
Charter of the United Nations;

19. Reaffirms its resolution 47/1 of 22 September 1992, and urges Member
States and the Secretariat in fulfilling the spirit of resolution 47/1, to end
the de facto working status of Serbia and Montenegro;

20. Requests that the International Committee of the Red Cross be granted
free access to all detention camps established by the Serbs in Serbia and
Montenegro and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to all persons imprisoned in those
camps, and that all prisoners be notified of this action without delay;

21. Requests the Security Council to act immediately to close all
detention camps in Bosnia and Herzegovina and further to close concentration
camps established by the Serbs in Serbia and Montenegro and in Bosnia and

/...



A/48/L.50
English
Page 6

Herzegovina and, until implementation, to assign international observers to
those camps;

22. Expresses its appreciation to those States and international
institutions which have provided humanitarian assistance to the people of the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and appeals to all Member States to
contribute generously towards alleviating their sufferings, including assistance
to refugee centres for Bosnian refugees in other countries;

23. Further affirms individual responsibility for the perpetration of
crimes against humanity committed in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina;

24. Welcomes the establishment of the International Tribunal constituted
pursuant to Security Council resolution 827 (1993) of 25 May 1993 and encourages
the provision of all resources necessary, including voluntary contributions from
States, intergovernmental, and non-governmental organizations, so that it can
conduct its stipulated functions of trying and punishing those responsible for
the perpetration of violations of international law;

25. Encourages the Commission of Experts, in cooperation with the
Prosecutor of the International Tribunal on the former Yugoslavia, to facilitate
the work of the International Tribunal, including the establishment of a record
of violations such as ethnic cleansing and systematic rape;

26. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary resources and
support for the Commission to carry out its functions;

27. Calls upon the Security Council to ensure that the proposals contained
in the "Geneva Peace package" are in conformity with the Charter of the United
Nations, the principles of international law, its previous resolutions and those
adopted by the Security Council, and the principles adopted at the International
Conference on the former Yugoslavia;

28. Calls for the urgent reconvening of the International Conference on
the former Yugoslavia in order to arrive at just and equitable proposals for
lasting peace in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and calls upon the
parties to the conflict to show good faith as they continue to negotiate in
order to reach a just, equitable and durable solution;

29. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
implementation of the present resolution within 15 days of its adoption, as well
as the report called for under the auspices of the London Conference, which,
regrettably, has not yet been issued;

30. Decides to remain seized of the matter and to continue the
consideration of this item.

-----


