





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/48/669
10 December 1993

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 64

VERIFICATION IN ALL ITS ASPECTS, INCLUDING THE ROLE OF
THE UNITED NATIONS IN THE FIELD OF VERIFICATION

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Macaire KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Verification in all its aspects, including the role of
the United Nations in the field of verification" was included in the provisional
agenda of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly in accordance with
its resolution 47/45 of 9 December 1992.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 24 September 1993, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 14 October 1993, the First Committee decided to
hold a general debate on all disarmament and international security items
allocated to it, namely, items 57 to 75 and 77 to 82. The deliberations on
those items took place at the 3rd to 14th meetings, on 18 to 22, 25, 26 and
28 October (see A/C.1/48/SR.3-14). Consideration of draft resolutions on those
items took place at the 18th to 23rd meetings, on 3 to 5, 8 and 9 November
(see A/C.1/48/SR.18-23). Action on draft resolutions on those items took place
at the 24th to 30th meetings, on 11, 12, 15, 16, 18 and 19 November
(see A/C.1/48/SR.24-30).

4. In connection with item 64, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on verification in all its aspects
including the role of the United Nations in the field of verification (A/48/227
and Add.1);

93-69924 (E) 131293 /...



A/48/669
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 16 July 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of China to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General, transmitting the Final Statement of the eleventh session of the
Inter-Action Council (A/48/272-S/26108);

(c) Letter dated 5 October 1993 from the Permanent Representative of China
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/48/477).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/48/L.45 AND REV.1

5. On 4 November, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada,
Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, Kenya, Mexico, New Zealand,
Nigeria, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Singapore, Slovakia and
Thailand, submitted a draft resolution, entitled "Verification in all its
aspects, including the role of the United Nations in the field of verification"
(A/C.1/48/L.45), which was later also sponsored by Brazil, Panama and the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 40/152 O of 16 December 1985, 41/86 Q of
4 December 1986, 42/42 F of 30 November 1987, 43/81 B of 7 December 1988,
45/65 of 4 December 1990 and 47/45 of 9 December 1992,

"Stressing that the critical importance of verification of and
compliance with arms limitation and disarmament agreements is universally
recognized, and that the issue of verification is a matter of concern to
all nations,

"Recognizing that the United Nations, in accordance with its role and
responsibilities established under the Charter, can make a significant
contribution in the field of verification, in particular of multilateral
agreements, and including verification in global, regional and local
contexts,

"Affirming its continued support for the sixteen principles of
verification drawn up by the Disarmament Commission, 1/

"Noting that recent developments in international relations continue
to underscore the importance of effective verification of existing and
future agreements to limit or eliminate arms, and that some of these
developments have significant effects on the role of the United Nations in
the field of verification, which require careful and ongoing examination,

1/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifteenth Special
Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/S-15/3), para. 60 (para. 6, sect. I, of the quoted
text).

/...



A/48/669
English
Page 3

"Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General pursuant to the
statement adopted by the Summit Meeting of the Security Council on
31 January 1992, 2/

"Taking note also of the report of the Secretary-General on the
occasion of Disarmament Week, 3/

"Welcoming the final report, adopted by consensus, of the Ad Hoc Group
of Governmental Experts open to all States parties of the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of
Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction, in
accordance with its mandate, to identify and examine potential verification
measures from a scientific and technical standpoint, 4/

"Welcoming also the conclusion of the Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on
Their Destruction, 5/ which contains an unprecedented regime of
verification, and the ongoing work to bring this Convention into force,

"Recalling that in resolution 47/45 it requested the Secretary-
General, as a follow-up to the study on the role of the United Nations in
the field of verification 6/ and in view of significant developments in
international relations since that study, to seek the views of Member
States on:

"(a) Additional actions that might be taken to implement the
recommendations contained in the study;

"(b) How the verification of arms limitation and disarmament
agreements can facilitate United Nations activities with respect to
preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-
building;

"(c) Additional actions with respect to the role of the United Nations
in the field of verification, including further studies by the United
Nations on this subject;

and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session on the
subject,

2/ A/47/277-S/24111.

3/ A/C.1/47/7.

4/ Citation to be determined.

5/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), appendix 1.

6/ A/45/372 and Corr.1.

/...



A/48/669
English
Page 4

"1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the views of
Member States; 7/

"2. Requests the Secretary-General, as a further follow-up action to
the study on the role of the United Nations in the field of verification
and in view of significant developments in international relations since
that study, to undertake with the assistance of a group of qualified
governmental experts, an in-depth study that would:

"(a) Examine the lessons from recent United Nations verification
experiences, as well as other relevant international developments, for
future activities by the United Nations and by the Conference on
Disarmament in the field of verification in all its aspects, including in
global, regional and local contexts, and with particular attention to the
ways verification can facilitate United Nations activities with respect to
confidence-building and conflict management;

"(b) Explore the further development of guidelines and principles for
the involvement of the United Nations in verification;

"(c) Review the conclusions of the 1990 study group with particular
attention to the ways that the United Nations might facilitate verification
through relevant procedures and processes-verification information from a
variety of sources;

"3. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
subject to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

"4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session the item entitled ’Verification in all its aspects, including the
role of the United Nations in the field of verification’."

6. On 10 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/48/L.45/Rev.1), which was later also sponsored by India.

7. On 17 November, India submitted an amendment to revised draft resolution
A/C.1/48/L.45/Rev.1 (A/C.1/48/L.54), which contained the following changes:

(a) At the end of the third preambular paragraph, the phrase "and taking
into consideration its specific experience at the global, regional and local
levels" was amended to read "and taking into consideration its experience";

(b) In operative paragraph 2 (a), the phrase "and taking into
consideration its specific experience at the global, regional and local levels"
was amended to read "and taking into consideration its experience".

8. At the 28th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Canada
introduced revised draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.45/Rev.1 and orally revised it as
follows:

7/ Citation to be determined.



A/48/669
English
Page 5

(a) At the end of the third preambular paragraph, the phrase "and taking
into consideration its specific experience at the global, regional and local
levels" was revised to read "and taking into consideration its specific
experience";

(b) In operative paragraph 2 (a), the phrase "taking into consideration
its specific experience at the global, regional and local levels" was revised to
read "taking into consideration its specific experience".

9. At its 30th meeting, on 19 November, the Committee voted on draft
resolution A/C.1/48/L.45/Rev.1 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 2, as orally revised, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 120 to 7, with 14 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Luxembourg, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

Abstaining: Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1/48/L.45/Rev.1 as a whole, as orally revised,
was adopted by a recorded vote of 127 to none, with 19 abstentions (see
para. 10). The voting was as follows:

/...



A/48/669
English
Page 6

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Lithuania, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States
of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta,
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

10. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Verification in all its aspects, including the role of
the United Nations in the field of verification

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 40/152 O of 16 December 1985, 41/86 Q of
4 December 1986, 42/42 F of 30 November 1987, 43/81 B of 7 December 1988,
45/65 of 4 December 1990 and 47/45 of 9 December 1992,

Stressing that the critical importance of verification of and compliance
with arms limitation and disarmament agreements is universally recognized, and
that the issue of verification is a matter of concern to all nations,

/...



A/48/669
English
Page 7

Recognizing that the United Nations, in accordance with its role and
responsibilities established under the Charter, can make a significant
contribution in the field of verification, in particular of multilateral
agreements, and taking into consideration its specific experience,

Affirming its continued support for the sixteen principles of verification
drawn up by the Disarmament Commission, 8/

Noting that recent developments in international relations continue to
underscore the importance of effective verification of existing and future
agreements to limit or eliminate arms, and that some of these developments have
significant effects on the role of the United Nations in the field of
verification, which require careful and ongoing examination,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General pursuant to the
statement of 31 January 1992, adopted at the conclusion of the first meeting
held by the Security Council at the level of Heads of State and Government, 9/

Taking note also of the report of the Secretary-General on the occasion of
Disarmament Week, 10/

Welcoming the final report, adopted by consensus, of the Ad Hoc Group of
Governmental Experts open to all States parties to the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological
(Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction, in accordance with its
mandate, to identify and examine potential verification measures from a
scientific and technical standpoint, 11/

Welcoming also the conclusion of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction, 12/ which contains an unprecedented regime of verification, and
the ongoing work to bring this Convention into force,

Recalling that in its resolution 47/45 it requested the Secretary-General,
as a follow-up to the study on the role of the United Nations in the field of

8/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifteenth Special
Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/S-15/3), para. 60 (para. 6, sect. I, of the quoted
text).

9/ A/47/277-S/24111.

10/ A/C.1/47/7.

11/ BWC/CONF.III/VEREX/IX.

12/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), appendix 1.

/...



A/48/669
English
Page 8

verification 13/ and in view of significant developments in international
relations since that study, to seek the views of Member States on:

(a) Additional actions that might be taken to implement the
recommendations contained in the study;

(b) How the verification of arms limitation and disarmament agreements can
facilitate United Nations activities with respect to preventive diplomacy,
peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building;

(c) Additional actions with respect to the role of the United Nations in
the field of verification, including further studies by the United Nations on
this subject;

and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session on the
subject,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the views of
Member States; 14/

2. Requests the Secretary-General, as a further follow-up to the study on
the role of the United Nations in the field of verification and in view of
significant developments in international relations since that study, to
undertake with the assistance of a group of qualified governmental experts, an
in-depth study that would:

(a) Examine the lessons from recent United Nations verification
experiences, as well as other relevant international developments, for future
activities by the United Nations and by the Conference on Disarmament in the
field of verification in all its aspects, taking into consideration its specific
experience, and with particular attention to the ways verification can
facilitate United Nations activities with respect to confidence-building and
conflict management and disarmament;

(b) Explore the further development of guidelines and principles for the
involvement of the United Nations in verification;

(c) Review the conclusions of the 1990 study group with particular
attention to the ways that the United Nations might facilitate verification
through relevant procedures, processes and bodies for acquiring, integrating and
analysing verification information from a variety of sources;

3. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the subject
to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

13/ A/45/372 and Corr.1.

14/ A/48/227 and Add.1.

/...



A/48/669
English
Page 9

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Verification in all its aspects, including the role of the
United Nations in the field of verification".

-----


