





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/48/L.60
22 June 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 36

LAW OF THE SEA

Fiji: draft resolution

Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of

10 December 1982

The General Assembly,

Prompted by the desire to achieve universal participation in the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Convention") 1/ and to promote appropriate representation in
the institutions established by it,

Reaffirming that the seabed and ocean floor and subsoil thereof, beyond the
limits of national jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as the "Area"), as well
as the resources of the Area, are the common heritage of mankind, 2/

Recalling that the Convention in its Part XI and related provisions
(hereinafter referred to as "Part XI") established a regime for the Area and its
resources,

________________________

1/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.

2/ General Assembly resolution 2749 (XXV); Article 136 of the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.

94-26130 (E) 270694 /...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 2

Taking note of the consolidated provisional final report of the Preparatory
Commission for the International Seabed Authority and for the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, 3/

Recalling its resolution 48/28 of 9 December 1993 on the law of the sea,

Recognizing that political and economic changes, including in particular a
growing reliance on market principles, have necessitated the re-evaluation of
some aspects of the regime for the Area and its resources,

Noting the initiative of the Secretary-General which began in 1990 to
promote dialogue aimed at achieving universal participation in the Convention,

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General on the outcome of his
informal consultations, including the draft of an agreement relating to the
implementation of Part XI, 4/

Considering that the objective of universal participation in the Convention
may best be achieved by the adoption of an agreement relating to the
implementation of Part XI,

Recognizing the need to provide for the provisional application of such an
agreement from the date of entry into force of the Convention on
16 November 1994,

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his report on
the informal consultations;

2. Reaffirms the unified character of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982;

3. Adopts the Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Agreement"), the text of which is annexed to the present
resolution;

4. Affirms that the Agreement shall be interpreted and applied together
with Part XI as a single instrument;

5. Considers that future ratifications or formal confirmations of or
accessions to the Convention shall represent also consent to be bound by the
Agreement and that no State or entity may establish its consent to be bound by
the Agreement unless it has previously established or establishes at the same
time its consent to be bound by the Convention;

6. Calls upon States which consent to the adoption of the Agreement to
refrain from any act which would defeat its object and purpose;

________________________

3/ Documents LOS/PCN/130 and Add.1.

4/ A/48/950.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 3

7. Expresses its satisfaction at the entry into force of the Convention
on 16 November 1994;

8. Decides to fund the administrative expenses of the International
Seabed Authority in accordance with section 1, paragraph 14, of the annex to the
Agreement;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit immediately certified
copies of the Agreement to the States and entities referred to in article 3
thereof, with a view to facilitating universal participation in the Convention
and the Agreement, and to draw attention to articles 4 and 5 of the Agreement;

10. Also requests the Secretary-General to open the Agreement for
signature in accordance with article 3 thereof immediately after its adoption;

11. Urges all States and entities referred to in article 3 of the
Agreement to consent to its provisional application as from 16 November 1994 and
to establish their consent to be bound by the Agreement at the earliest possible
date;

12. Also urges all such States and entities that have not already done so
to take all appropriate steps to ratify, formally confirm or accede to the
Convention at the earliest possible date in order to ensure universal
participation in the Convention;

13. Calls upon the Preparatory Commission for the International Seabed
Authority and for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea to take into
account the terms of the Agreement when drawing up its final report.

DRAFT AGREEMENT RELATING TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PART XI
OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON THE LAW OF THE SEA OF

10 DECEMBER 1982

The States Parties to this Agreement,

Recognizing the important contribution of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (hereinafter referred to as "the
Convention") to the maintenance of peace, justice and progress for all peoples
of the world,

Reaffirming that the seabed and ocean floor and subsoil thereof, beyond the
limits of national jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as "the Area"), as well
as the resources of the Area, are the common heritage of mankind,

Mindful of the importance of the Convention for the protection and
preservation of the marine environment and of the growing concern for the global
environment,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
on the results of the informal consultations among States held from 1990 to 1994

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 4

on outstanding issues relating to Part XI and related provisions of the
Convention (hereinafter referred to as "Part XI"),

Noting the political and economic changes, including market-oriented
approaches, affecting the implementation of Part XI,

Wishing to facilitate universal participation in the Convention,

Considering that an agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI
would best meet that objective,

Have agreed as follows:

Article 1

Implementation of Part XI

1. The States Parties to this Agreement undertake to implement Part XI in
accordance with this Agreement.

2. The Annex forms an integral part of this Agreement.

Article 2

Relationship between this Agreement and Part XI

1. The provisions of this Agreement and Part XI shall be interpreted and
applied together as a single instrument. In the event of any inconsistency
between this Agreement and Part XI, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.

2. Articles 309 to 319 of the Convention shall apply to this Agreement as they
apply to the Convention.

Article 3

Signature

This Agreement shall remain open for signature at United Nations
Headquarters by the States and entities referred to in article 305,
paragraph 1 (a), (c), (d), (e) and (f), of the Convention for 12 months from the
date of its adoption.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 5

Article 4

Consent to be bound

1. After the adoption of this Agreement, any instrument of ratification or
formal confirmation of or accession to the Convention shall also represent
consent to be bound by this Agreement.

2. No State or entity may establish its consent to be bound by this Agreement
unless it has previously established or establishes at the same time its consent
to be bound by the Convention.

3. A State or entity referred to in article 3 may express its consent to be
bound by this Agreement by:

(a) Signature not subject to ratification, formal confirmation or the
procedure set out in article 5;

(b) Signature subject to ratification or formal confirmation, followed by
ratification or formal confirmation;

(c) Signature subject to the procedure set out in article 5; or

(d) Accession.

4. Formal confirmation by the entities referred to in article 305,
paragraph 1 (f), of the Convention shall be in accordance with Annex IX of the
Convention.

5. The instruments of ratification, formal confirmation or accession shall be
deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Article 5

Simplified procedure

1. A State or entity which has deposited before the date of the adoption of
this Agreement an instrument of ratification or formal confirmation of or
accession to the Convention and which has signed this Agreement in accordance
with article 4, paragraph 3 (c), shall be considered to have established its
consent to be bound by this Agreement 12 months after the date of its adoption,
unless that State or entity notifies the depositary in writing before that date
that it is not availing itself of the simplified procedure set out in this
article.

2. In the event of such notification, consent to be bound by this Agreement
shall be established in accordance with article 4, paragraph 3 (b).

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 6

Article 6

Entry into force

1. This Agreement shall enter into force 30 days after the date on which 40
States have established their consent to be bound in accordance with articles 4
and 5, provided that such States include at least seven of the States referred
to in paragraph l (a) of resolution II of the Third United Nations Conference on
the Law of the Sea (hereinafter referred to as "resolution II") and that at
least five of those States are developed States. If these conditions for entry
into force are fulfilled before 16 November 1994, this Agreement shall enter
into force on 16 November 1994.

2. For each State or entity establishing its consent to be bound by this
Agreement after the requirements set out in paragraph 1 have been fulfilled,
this Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following the date of
establishment of its consent to be bound.

Article 7

Provisional application

1. If on 16 November 1994 this Agreement has not entered into force, it shall
be applied provisionally pending its entry into force by:

(a) States which have consented to its adoption in the General Assembly of
the United Nations, except any such State which before 16 November 1994 notifies
the depositary in writing either that it will not so apply this Agreement or
that it will consent to such application only upon subsequent signature or
notification in writing;

(b) States and entities which sign this Agreement, except any such State
or entity which notifies the depositary in writing at the time of signature that
it will not so apply this Agreement;

(c) States and entities which consent to its provisional application by so
notifying the depositary in writing;

(d) States which accede to this Agreement.

2. All such States and entities shall apply this Agreement provisionally in
accordance with their national or internal laws and regulations, with effect
from 16 November 1994 or the date of signature, notification of consent or
accession, if later.

3. Provisional application shall terminate upon the date of entry into force
of this Agreement. In any event, provisional application shall terminate on
16 November 1998 if at that date the requirement in article 6, paragraph 1, of
consent to be bound by this Agreement by at least seven of the States (of which
at least five must be developed States) referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of
resolution II has not been fulfilled.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 7

Article 8

States Parties

1. For the purposes of this Agreement, "States Parties" means States which
have consented to be bound by this Agreement and for which this Agreement is in
force.

2. This Agreement applies mutatis mutandis to the entities referred to in
article 305, paragraph 1 (c), (d), (e) and (f), of the Convention which become
Parties to this Agreement in accordance with the conditions relevant to each,
and to that extent "States Parties" refers to those entities.

Article 9

Depositary

The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall be the depositary of this
Agreement.

Article 10

Authentic texts

The original of this Agreement, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English,
French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with
the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, being duly
authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement.

DONE AT NEW YORK, this ... day of July, one thousand nine hundred and
ninety-four.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 8

ANNEX

SECTION 1. COSTS TO STATES PARTIES AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

1. The International Seabed Authority (hereinafter referred to as "the
Authority") is the organization through which States Parties to the Convention
shall, in accordance with the regime for the Area established in Part XI and
this Agreement, organize and control activities in the Area, particularly with a
view to administering the resources of the Area. The powers and functions of
the Authority shall be those expressly conferred upon it by the Convention. The
Authority shall have such incidental powers, consistent with the Convention, as
are implicit in, and necessary for, the exercise of those powers and functions
with respect to activities in the Area.

2. In order to minimize costs to States Parties, all organs and subsidiary
bodies to be established under the Convention and this Agreement shall be
cost-effective. This principle shall also apply to the frequency, duration and
scheduling of meetings.

3. The setting up and the functioning of the organs and subsidiary bodies of
the Authority shall be based on an evolutionary approach, taking into account
the functional needs of the organs and subsidiary bodies concerned in order that
they may discharge effectively their respective responsibilities at various
stages of the development of activities in the Area.

4. The early functions of the Authority upon entry into force of the
Convention shall be carried out by the Assembly, the Council, the Secretariat,
the Legal and Technical Commission and the Finance Committee. The functions of
the Economic Planning Commission shall be performed by the Legal and Technical
Commission until such time as the Council decides otherwise or until the
approval of the first plan of work for exploitation.

5. Between the entry into force of the Convention and the approval of the
first plan of work for exploitation, the Authority shall concentrate on:

(a) Processing of applications for approval of plans of work for
exploration in accordance with Part XI and this Agreement;

(b) Implementation of decisions of the Preparatory Commission for the
International Seabed Authority and for the International Tribunal for the Law of
the Sea (hereinafter referred to as "the Preparatory Commission") relating to
the registered pioneer investors and their certifying States, including their
rights and obligations, in accordance with article 308, paragraph 5, of the
Convention and resolution II, paragraph 13;

(c) Monitoring of compliance with plans of work for exploration approved
in the form of contracts;

(d) Monitoring and review of trends and developments relating to deep
seabed mining activities, including regular analysis of world metal market
conditions and metal prices, trends and prospects;

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 9

(e) Study of the potential impact of mineral production from the Area on
the economies of developing land-based producers of those minerals which are
likely to be most seriously affected, with a view to minimizing their
difficulties and assisting them in their economic adjustment, taking into
account the work done in this regard by the Preparatory Commission;

(f) Adoption of rules, regulations and procedures necessary for the
conduct of activities in the Area as they progress. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Annex III, article 17, paragraph 2 (b) and (c), of the Convention,
such rules, regulations and procedures shall take into account the terms of this
Agreement, the prolonged delay in commercial deep seabed mining and the likely
pace of activities in the Area;

(g) Adoption of rules, regulations and procedures incorporating applicable
standards for the protection and preservation of the marine environment;

(h) Promotion and encouragement of the conduct of marine scientific
research with respect to activities in the Area and the collection and
dissemination of the results of such research and analysis, when available, with
particular emphasis on research related to the environmental impact of
activities in the Area;

(i) Acquisition of scientific knowledge and monitoring of the development
of marine technology relevant to activities in the Area, in particular
technology relating to the protection and preservation of the marine
environment;

(j) Assessment of available data relating to prospecting and exploration;

(k) Timely elaboration of rules, regulations and procedures for
exploitation, including those relating to the protection and preservation of the
marine environment.

6. (a) An application for approval of a plan of work for exploration shall be
considered by the Council following the receipt of a recommendation on the
application from the Legal and Technical Commission. The processing of an
application for approval of a plan of work for exploration shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention, including Annex III thereof,
and this Agreement, and subject to the following:

(i) A plan of work for exploration submitted on behalf of a State or
entity, or any component of such entity, referred to in resolution II,
paragraph 1 (a) (ii) or (iii), other than a registered pioneer
investor, which had already undertaken substantial activities in the
Area prior to the entry into force of the Convention, or its successor
in interest, shall be considered to have met the financial and
technical qualifications necessary for approval of a plan of work if
the sponsoring State or States certify that the applicant has expended
an amount equivalent to at least US$ 30 million in research and
exploration activities and has expended no less than 10 per cent of
that amount in the location, survey and evaluation of the area
referred to in the plan of work. If the plan of work otherwise

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 10

satisfies the requirements of the Convention and any rules,
regulations and procedures adopted pursuant thereto, it shall be
approved by the Council in the form of a contract. The provisions of
section 3, paragraph 11, of this Annex shall be interpreted and
applied accordingly;

(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of resolution II, paragraph 8 (a), a
registered pioneer investor may request approval of a plan of work for
exploration within 36 months of the entry into force of the
Convention. The plan of work for exploration shall consist of
documents, reports and other data submitted to the Preparatory
Commission both before and after registration and shall be accompanied
by a certificate of compliance, consisting of a factual report
describing the status of fulfilment of obligations under the pioneer
investor regime, issued by the Preparatory Commission in accordance
with resolution II, paragraph 11 (a). Such a plan of work shall be
considered to be approved. Such an approved plan of work shall be in
the form of a contract concluded between the Authority and the
registered pioneer investor in accordance with Part XI and this
Agreement. The fee of US$ 250,000 paid pursuant to resolution II,
paragraph 7 (a), shall be deemed to be the fee relating to the
exploration phase pursuant to section 8, paragraph 3, of this Annex.
Section 3, paragraph 11, of this Annex shall be interpreted and
applied accordingly;

(iii) In accordance with the principle of non-discrimination, a contract
with a State or entity or any component of such entity referred to in
subparagraph (a) (i) shall include arrangements which shall be similar
to and no less favourable than those agreed with any registered
pioneer investor referred to in subparagraph (a) (ii). If any of the
States or entities or any components of such entities referred to in
subparagraph (a) (i) are granted more favourable arrangements, the
Council shall make similar and no less favourable arrangements with
regard to the rights and obligations assumed by the registered pioneer
investors referred to in subparagraph (a) (ii), provided that such
arrangements do not affect or prejudice the interests of the
Authority;

(iv) A State sponsoring an application for a plan of work pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraph (a) (i) or (ii) may be a State Party or a
State which is applying this Agreement provisionally in accordance
with article 7, or a State which is a member of the Authority on a
provisional basis in accordance with paragraph 12;

(v) Resolution II, paragraph 8 (c), shall be interpreted and applied in
accordance with subparagraph (a) (iv).

(b) The approval of a plan of work for exploration shall be in accordance
with article 153, paragraph 3, of the Convention.

7. An application for approval of a plan of work shall be accompanied by an
assessment of the potential environmental impacts of the proposed activities and

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 11

by a description of a programme for oceanographic and baseline environmental
studies in accordance with the rules, regulations and procedures adopted by the
Authority.

8. An application for approval of a plan of work for exploration, subject to
paragraph 6 (a) (i) or (ii), shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures set out in section 3, paragraph 11, of this Annex.

9. A plan of work for exploration shall be approved for a period of 15 years.
Upon the expiration of a plan of work for exploration, the contractor shall
apply for a plan of work for exploitation unless the contractor has already
done so or has obtained an extension for the plan of work for exploration.
Contractors may apply for such extensions for periods of not more than
five years each. Such extensions shall be approved if the contractor has made
efforts in good faith to comply with the requirements of the plan of work but
for reasons beyond the contractor’s control has been unable to complete the
necessary preparatory work for proceeding to the exploitation stage or if the
prevailing economic circumstances do not justify proceeding to the exploitation
stage.

10. Designation of a reserved area for the Authority in accordance with
Annex III, article 8, of the Convention shall take place in connection with
approval of an application for a plan of work for exploration or approval of an
application for a plan of work for exploration and exploitation.

11. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 9, an approved plan of work for
exploration which is sponsored by at least one State provisionally applying this
Agreement shall terminate if such a State ceases to apply this Agreement
provisionally and has not become a member on a provisional basis in accordance
with paragraph 12 or has not become a State Party.

12. Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, States and entities referred
to in article 3 of this Agreement which have been applying it provisionally in
accordance with article 7 and for which it is not in force may continue to be
members of the Authority on a provisional basis pending its entry into force for
such States and entities, in accordance with the following subparagraphs:

(a) If this Agreement enters into force before 16 November 1996, such
States and entities shall be entitled to continue to participate as members of
the Authority on a provisional basis upon notification to the depositary of the
Agreement by such a State or entity of its intention to participate as a member
on a provisional basis. Such membership shall terminate either on
16 November 1996 or upon the entry into force of this Agreement and the
Convention for such member, whichever is earlier. The Council may, upon the
request of the State or entity concerned, extend such membership beyond
16 November 1996 for a further period or periods not exceeding a total of
two years provided that the Council is satisfied that the State or entity
concerned has been making efforts in good faith to become a party to the
Agreement and the Convention;

(b) If this Agreement enters into force after 15 November 1996, such
States and entities may request the Council to grant continued membership in the

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 12

Authority on a provisional basis for a period or periods not extending beyond
16 November 1998. The Council shall grant such membership with effect from the
date of the request if it is satisfied that the State or entity has been making
efforts in good faith to become a party to the Agreement and the Convention;

(c) States and entities which are members of the Authority on a
provisional basis in accordance with subparagraph (a) or (b) shall apply the
terms of Part XI and this Agreement in accordance with their national or
internal laws, regulations and annual budgetary appropriations and shall have
the same rights and obligations as other members, including:

(i) The obligation to contribute to the administrative budget of the
Authority in accordance with the scale of assessed contributions;

(ii) The right to sponsor an application for approval of a plan of work for
exploration. In the case of entities whose components are natural or
juridical persons possessing the nationality of more than one State, a
plan of work for exploration shall not be approved unless all the
States whose natural or juridical persons comprise those entities are
States Parties or members on a provisional basis;

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 9, an approved plan of
work in the form of a contract for exploration which was sponsored pursuant to
subparagraph (c) (ii) by a State which was a member on a provisional basis shall
terminate if such membership ceases and the State or entity has not become a
State Party;

(e) If such a member has failed to make its assessed contributions or
otherwise failed to comply with its obligations in accordance with this
paragraph, its membership on a provisional basis shall be terminated.

13. The reference in Annex III, article 10, of the Convention to performance
which has not been satisfactory shall be interpreted to mean that the contractor
has failed to comply with the requirements of an approved plan of work in spite
of a written warning or warnings from the Authority to the contractor to comply
therewith.

14. The Authority shall have its own budget. Until the end of the year
following the year during which this Agreement enters into force, the
administrative expenses of the Authority shall be met through the budget of the
United Nations. Thereafter, the administrative expenses of the Authority shall
be met by assessed contributions of its members, including any members on a
provisional basis, in accordance with articles 171, subparagraph (a), and 173 of
the Convention and this Agreement, until the Authority has sufficient funds from
other sources to meet those expenses. The Authority shall not exercise the
power referred to in article 174, paragraph 1, of the Convention to borrow funds
to finance its administrative budget.

15. The Authority shall elaborate and adopt, in accordance with article 162,
paragraph 2 (o) (ii), of the Convention, rules, regulations and procedures based
on the principles contained in sections 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Annex, as well
as any additional rules, regulations and procedures necessary to facilitate the

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 13

approval of plans of work for exploration or exploitation, in accordance with
the following subparagraphs:

(a) The Council may undertake such elaboration any time it deems that all
or any of such rules, regulations or procedures are required for the conduct of
activities in the Area, or when it determines that commercial exploitation is
imminent, or at the request of a State whose national intends to apply for
approval of a plan of work for exploitation;

(b) If a request is made by a State referred to in subparagraph (a) the
Council shall, in accordance with article 162, paragraph 2 (o), of the
Convention, complete the adoption of such rules, regulations and procedures
within two years of the request;

(c) If the Council has not completed the elaboration of the rules,
regulations and procedures relating to exploitation within the prescribed time
and an application for approval of a plan of work for exploitation is pending,
it shall none the less consider and provisionally approve such plan of work
based on the provisions of the Convention and any rules, regulations and
procedures that the Council may have adopted provisionally, or on the basis of
the norms contained in the Convention and the terms and principles contained in
this Annex as well as the principle of non-discrimination among contractors.

16. The draft rules, regulations and procedures and any recommendations
relating to the provisions of Part XI, as contained in the reports and
recommendations of the Preparatory Commission, shall be taken into account by
the Authority in the adoption of rules, regulations and procedures in accordance
with Part XI and this Agreement.

17. The relevant provisions of Part XI, section 4, of the Convention shall be
interpreted and applied in accordance with this Agreement.

SECTION 2. THE ENTERPRISE

1. The Secretariat of the Authority shall perform the functions of the
Enterprise until it begins to operate independently of the Secretariat. The
Secretary-General of the Authority shall appoint from within the staff of the
Authority an interim Director-General to oversee the performance of these
functions by the Secretariat.

These functions shall be:

(a) Monitoring and review of trends and developments relating to deep
seabed mining activities, including regular analysis of world metal market
conditions and metal prices, trends and prospects;

(b) Assessment of the results of the conduct of marine scientific research
with respect to activities in the Area, with particular emphasis on research
related to the environmental impact of activities in the Area;

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 14

(c) Assessment of available data relating to prospecting and exploration,
including the criteria for such activities;

(d) Assessment of technological developments relevant to activities in the
Area, in particular technology relating to the protection and preservation of
the marine environment;

(e) Evaluation of information and data relating to areas reserved for the
Authority;

(f) Assessment of approaches to joint-venture operations;

(g) Collection of information on the availability of trained manpower;

(h) Study of managerial policy options for the administration of the
Enterprise at different stages of its operations.

2. The Enterprise shall conduct its initial deep seabed mining operations
through joint ventures. Upon the approval of a plan of work for exploitation
for an entity other than the Enterprise, or upon receipt by the Council of an
application for a joint-venture operation with the Enterprise, the Council shall
take up the issue of the functioning of the Enterprise independently of the
Secretariat of the Authority. If joint-venture operations with the Enterprise
accord with sound commercial principles, the Council shall issue a directive
pursuant to article 170, paragraph 2, of the Convention providing for such
independent functioning.

3. The obligation of States Parties to fund one mine site of the Enterprise as
provided for in Annex IV, article 11, paragraph 3, of the Convention shall not
apply and States Parties shall be under no obligation to finance any of the
operations in any mine site of the Enterprise or under its joint-venture
arrangements.

4. The obligations applicable to contractors shall apply to the Enterprise.
Notwithstanding the provisions of article 153, paragraph 3, and Annex III,
article 3, paragraph 5, of the Convention, a plan of work for the Enterprise
upon its approval shall be in the form of a contract concluded between the
Authority and the Enterprise.

5. A contractor which has contributed a particular area to the Authority as a
reserved area has the right of first refusal to enter into a joint-venture
arrangement with the Enterprise for exploration and exploitation of that area.
If the Enterprise does not submit an application for a plan of work for
activities in respect of such a reserved area within 15 years of the
commencement of its functions independent of the Secretariat of the Authority or
within 15 years of the date on which that area is reserved for the Authority,
whichever is the later, the contractor which contributed the area shall be
entitled to apply for a plan of work for that area provided it offers in good
faith to include the Enterprise as a joint-venture partner.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 15

6. Article 170, paragraph 4, Annex IV and other provisions of the Convention
relating to the Enterprise shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with
this section.

SECTION 3. DECISION-MAKING

1. The general policies of the Authority shall be established by the Assembly
in collaboration with the Council.

2. As a general rule, decision-making in the organs of the Authority should be
by consensus.

3. If all efforts to reach a decision by consensus have been exhausted,
decisions by voting in the Assembly on questions of procedure shall be taken by
a majority of members present and voting, and decisions on questions of
substance shall be taken by a two-thirds majority of members present and voting,
as provided for in article 159, paragraph 8, of the Convention.

4. Decisions of the Assembly on any matter for which the Council also has
competence or on any administrative, budgetary or financial matter shall be
based on the recommendations of the Council. If the Assembly does not accept
the recommendation of the Council on any matter, it shall return the matter to
the Council for further consideration. The Council shall reconsider the matter
in the light of the views expressed by the Assembly.

5. If all efforts to reach a decision by consensus have been exhausted,
decisions by voting in the Council on questions of procedure shall be taken by a
majority of members present and voting, and decisions on questions of substance,
except where the Convention provides for decisions by consensus in the Council,
shall be taken by a two-thirds majority of members present and voting, provided
that such decisions are not opposed by a majority in any one of the chambers
referred to in paragraph 9. In taking decisions the Council shall seek to
promote the interests of all the members of the Authority.

6. The Council may defer the taking of a decision in order to facilitate
further negotiation whenever it appears that all efforts at achieving consensus
on a question have not been exhausted.

7. Decisions by the Assembly or the Council having financial or budgetary
implications shall be based on the recommendations of the Finance Committee.

8. The provisions of article 161, paragraph 8 (b) and (c), of the Convention
shall not apply.

9. (a) Each group of States elected under paragraph 15 (a) to (c) shall be
treated as a chamber for the purposes of voting in the Council. The developing
States elected under paragraph 15 (d) and (e) shall be treated as a single
chamber for the purposes of voting in the Council.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 16

(b) Before electing the members of the Council, the Assembly shall
establish lists of countries fulfilling the criteria for membership in the
groups of States in paragraph 15 (a) to (d). If a State fulfils the criteria
for membership in more than one group, it may only be proposed by one group for
election to the Council and it shall represent only that group in voting in the
Council.

10. Each group of States in paragraph 15 (a) to (d) shall be represented in the
Council by those members nominated by that group. Each group shall nominate
only as many candidates as the number of seats required to be filled by that
group. When the number of potential candidates in each of the groups referred
to in paragraph 15 (a) to (e) exceeds the number of seats available in each of
those respective groups, as a general rule, the principle of rotation shall
apply. States members of each of those groups shall determine how this
principle shall apply in those groups.

11. (a) The Council shall approve a recommendation by the Legal and Technical
Commission for approval of a plan of work unless by a two-thirds majority of its
members present and voting, including a majority of members present and voting
in each of the chambers of the Council, the Council decides to disapprove a plan
of work. If the Council does not take a decision on a recommendation for
approval of a plan of work within a prescribed period, the recommendation shall
be deemed to have been approved by the Council at the end of that period. The
prescribed period shall normally be 60 days unless the Council decides to
provide for a longer period. If the Commission recommends the disapproval of a
plan of work or does not make a recommendation, the Council may nevertheless
approve the plan of work in accordance with its rules of procedure for
decision-making on questions of substance.

(b) The provisions of article 162, paragraph 2 (j), of the Convention
shall not apply.

12. Where a dispute arises relating to the disapproval of a plan of work, such
dispute shall be submitted to the dispute settlement procedures set out in the
Convention.

13. Decisions by voting in the Legal and Technical Commission shall be by a
majority of members present and voting.

14. Part XI, section 4, subsections B and C, of the Convention shall be
interpreted and applied in accordance with this section.

15. The Council shall consist of 36 members of the Authority elected by the
Assembly in the following order:

(a) Four members from among those States Parties which, during the last
five years for which statistics are available, have either consumed more than
2 per cent in value terms of total world consumption or have had net imports of
more than 2 per cent in value terms of total world imports of the commodities
produced from the categories of minerals to be derived from the Area, provided
that the four members shall include one State from the Eastern European region
having the largest economy in that region in terms of gross domestic product and

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 17

the State, on the date of entry into force of the Convention, having the largest
economy in terms of gross domestic product, if such States wish to be
represented in this group;

(b) Four members from among the eight States Parties which have made the
largest investments in preparation for and in the conduct of activities in the
Area, either directly or through their nationals;

(c) Four members from among States Parties which, on the basis of
production in areas under their jurisdiction, are major net exporters of the
categories of minerals to be derived from the Area, including at least two
developing States whose exports of such minerals have a substantial bearing upon
their economies;

(d) Six members from among developing States Parties, representing special
interests. The special interests to be represented shall include those of
States with large populations, States which are land-locked or geographically
disadvantaged, island States, States which are major importers of the categories
of minerals to be derived from the Area, States which are potential producers of
such minerals and least developed States;

(e) Eighteen members elected according to the principle of ensuring an
equitable geographical distribution of seats in the Council as a whole, provided
that each geographical region shall have at least one member elected under this
subparagraph. For this purpose, the geographical regions shall be Africa, Asia,
Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean and Western Europe and Others.

16. The provisions of article 161, paragraph 1, of the Convention shall not
apply.

SECTION 4. REVIEW CONFERENCE

The provisions relating to the Review Conference in article 155,
paragraphs 1, 3 and 4, of the Convention shall not apply. Notwithstanding the
provisions of article 314, paragraph 2, of the Convention, the Assembly, on the
recommendation of the Council, may undertake at any time a review of the matters
referred to in article 155, paragraph 1, of the Convention. Amendments relating
to this Agreement and Part XI shall be subject to the procedures contained in
articles 314, 315 and 316 of the Convention, provided that the principles,
regime and other terms referred to in article 155, paragraph 2, of the
Convention shall be maintained and the rights referred to in paragraph 5 of that
article shall not be affected.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 18

SECTION 5. TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY

1. In addition to the provisions of article 144 of the Convention, transfer of
technology for the purposes of Part XI shall be governed by the following
principles:

(a) The Enterprise, and developing States wishing to obtain deep seabed
mining technology, shall seek to obtain such technology on fair and reasonable
commercial terms and conditions on the open market, or through joint-venture
arrangements;

(b) If the Enterprise or developing States are unable to obtain deep
seabed mining technology, the Authority may request all or any of the
contractors and their respective sponsoring State or States to cooperate with it
in facilitating the acquisition of deep seabed mining technology by the
Enterprise or its joint venture, or by a developing State or States seeking to
acquire such technology on fair and reasonable commercial terms and conditions,
consistent with the effective protection of intellectual property rights.
States Parties undertake to cooperate fully and effectively with the Authority
for this purpose and to ensure that contractors sponsored by them also cooperate
fully with the Authority;

(c) As a general rule, States Parties shall promote international
technical and scientific cooperation with regard to activities in the Area
either between the parties concerned or by developing training, technical
assistance and scientific cooperation programmes in marine science and
technology and the protection and preservation of the marine environment.

2. The provisions of Annex III, article 5, of the Convention shall not apply.

SECTION 6. PRODUCTION POLICY

1. The production policy of the Authority shall be based on the following
principles:

(a) Development of the resources of the Area shall take place in
accordance with sound commercial principles;

(b) The provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, its
relevant codes and successor or superseding agreements shall apply with respect
to activities in the Area;

(c) In particular, there shall be no subsidization of activities in the
Area except as may be permitted under the agreements referred to in
subparagraph (b). Subsidization for the purpose of these principles shall be
defined in terms of the agreements referred to in subparagraph (b);

(d) There shall be no discrimination between minerals derived from the
Area and from other sources. There shall be no preferential access to markets
for such minerals or for imports of commodities produced from such minerals, in
particular:

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 19

(i) By the use of tariff or non-tariff barriers; and

(ii) Given by States Parties to such minerals or commodities produced by
their state enterprises or by natural or juridical persons which
possess their nationality or are controlled by them or their
nationals;

(e) The plan of work for exploitation approved by the Authority in respect
of each mining area shall indicate an anticipated production schedule which
shall include the estimated maximum amounts of minerals that would be produced
per year under the plan of work;

(f) The following shall apply to the settlement of disputes concerning the
provisions of the agreements referred to in subparagraph (b):

(i) Where the States Parties concerned are parties to such agreements,
they shall have recourse to the dispute settlement procedures of those
agreements;

(ii) Where one or more of the States Parties concerned are not parties to
such agreements, they shall have recourse to the dispute settlement
procedures set out in the Convention;

(g) In circumstances where a determination is made under the agreements
referred to in subparagraph (b) that a State Party has engaged in subsidization
which is prohibited or has resulted in adverse effects on the interests of
another State Party and appropriate steps have not been taken by the relevant
State Party or States Parties, a State Party may request the Council to take
appropriate measures.

2. The principles contained in paragraph 1 shall not affect the rights and
obligations under any provision of the agreements referred to in
paragraph 1 (b), as well as the relevant free trade and customs union
agreements, in relations between States Parties which are parties to such
agreements.

3. The acceptance by a contractor of subsidies other than those which may be
permitted under the agreements referred to in paragraph 1 (b) shall constitute a
violation of the fundamental terms of the contract forming a plan of work for
the carrying out of activities in the Area.

4. Any State Party which has reason to believe that there has been a breach of
the requirements of paragraphs 1 (b) to (d) or 3 may initiate dispute settlement
procedures in conformity with paragraph 1 (f) or (g).

5. A State Party may at any time bring to the attention of the Council
activities which in its view are inconsistent with the requirements of
paragraph 1 (b) to (d).

6. The Authority shall develop rules, regulations and procedures which ensure
the implementation of the provisions of this section, including relevant rules,
regulations and procedures governing the approval of plans of work.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 20

7. The provisions of article 151, paragraphs 1 to 7 and 9, article 162,
paragraph 2 (q), article 165, paragraph 2 (n), and Annex III, article 6,
paragraph 5, and article 7, of the Convention shall not apply.

SECTION 7. ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

1. The policy of the Authority of assisting developing countries which suffer
serious adverse effects on their export earnings or economies resulting from a
reduction in the price of an affected mineral or in the volume of exports of
that mineral, to the extent that such reduction is caused by activities in the
Area, shall be based on the following principles:

(a) The Authority shall establish an economic assistance fund from a
portion of the funds of the Authority which exceeds those necessary to cover the
administrative expenses of the Authority. The amount set aside for this purpose
shall be determined by the Council from time to time, upon the recommendation of
the Finance Committee. Only funds from payments received from contractors,
including the Enterprise, and voluntary contributions shall be used for the
establishment of the economic assistance fund;

(b) Developing land-based producer States whose economies have been
determined to be seriously affected by the production of minerals from the deep
seabed shall be assisted from the economic assistance fund of the Authority;

(c) The Authority shall provide assistance from the fund to affected
developing land-based producer States, where appropriate, in cooperation with
existing global or regional development institutions which have the
infrastructure and expertise to carry out such assistance programmes;

(d) The extent and period of such assistance shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis. In doing so, due consideration shall be given to the nature
and magnitude of the problems encountered by affected developing land-based
producer States.

2. Article 151, paragraph 10, of the Convention shall be implemented by means
of measures of economic assistance referred to in paragraph 1. Article 160,
paragraph 2 (l), article 162, paragraph 2 (n), article 164, paragraph 2 (d),
article 171, subparagraph (f), and article 173, paragraph 2 (c), of the
Convention shall be interpreted accordingly.

SECTION 8. FINANCIAL TERMS OF CONTRACTS

1. The following principles shall provide the basis for establishing rules,
regulations and procedures for financial terms of contracts:

(a) The system of payments to the Authority shall be fair both to the
contractor and to the Authority and shall provide adequate means of determining
compliance by the contractor with such system;

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 21

(b) The rates of payments under the system shall be within the range of
those prevailing in respect of land-based mining of the same or similar minerals
in order to avoid giving deep seabed miners an artificial competitive advantage
or imposing on them a competitive disadvantage;

(c) The system should not be complicated and should not impose major
administrative costs on the Authority or on a contractor. Consideration should
be given to the adoption of a royalty system or a combination of a royalty and
profit-sharing system. If alternative systems are decided upon, the contractor
has the right to choose the system applicable to its contract. Any subsequent
change in choice between alternative systems, however, shall be made by
agreement between the Authority and the contractor;

(d) An annual fixed fee shall be payable from the date of commencement of
commercial production. This fee may be credited against other payments due
under the system adopted in accordance with subparagraph (c). The amount of the
fee shall be established by the Council;

(e) The system of payments may be revised periodically in the light of
changing circumstances. Any changes shall be applied in a non-discriminatory
manner. Such changes may apply to existing contracts only at the election of
the contractor. Any subsequent change in choice between alternative systems
shall be made by agreement between the Authority and the contractor;

(f) Disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the rules and
regulations based on these principles shall be subject to the dispute settlement
procedures set out in the Convention.

2. The provisions of Annex III, article 13, paragraphs 3 to 10, of the
Convention shall not apply.

3. With regard to the implementation of Annex III, article 13, paragraph 2, of
the Convention, the fee for processing applications for approval of a plan of
work limited to one phase, either the exploration phase or the exploitation
phase, shall be US$ 250,000.

SECTION 9. THE FINANCE COMMITTEE

1. There is hereby established a Finance Committee. The Committee shall be
composed of 15 members with appropriate qualifications relevant to financial
matters. States Parties shall nominate candidates of the highest standards of
competence and integrity.

2. No two members of the Finance Committee shall be nationals of the same
State Party.

3. Members of the Finance Committee shall be elected by the Assembly and due
account shall be taken of the need for equitable geographical distribution and
the representation of special interests. Each group of States referred to in
section 3, paragraph 15 (a), (b), (c) and (d), of this Annex shall be
represented on the Committee by at least one member. Until the Authority has

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 22

sufficient funds other than assessed contributions to meet its administrative
expenses, the membership of the Committee shall include representatives of the
five largest financial contributors to the administrative budget of the
Authority. Thereafter, the election of one member from each group shall be on
the basis of nomination by the members of the respective group, without
prejudice to the possibility of further members being elected from each group.

4. Members of the Finance Committee shall hold office for a term of five
years. They shall be eligible for re-election for a further term.

5. In the event of the death, incapacity or resignation of a member of the
Finance Committee prior to the expiration of the term of office, the Assembly
shall elect for the remainder of the term a member from the same geographical
region or group of States.

6. Members of the Finance Committee shall have no financial interest in any
activity relating to matters upon which the Committee has the responsibility to
make recommendations. They shall not disclose, even after the termination of
their functions, any confidential information coming to their knowledge by
reason of their duties for the Authority.

7. Decisions by the Assembly and the Council on the following issues shall
take into account recommendations of the Finance Committee:

(a) Draft financial rules, regulations and procedures of the organs of the
Authority and the financial management and internal financial administration of
the Authority;

(b) Assessment of contributions of members to the administrative budget of
the Authority in accordance with article 160, paragraph 2 (e), of the
Convention;

(c) All relevant financial matters, including the proposed annual budget
prepared by the Secretary-General of the Authority in accordance with
article 172 of the Convention and the financial aspects of the implementation of
the programmes of work of the Secretariat;

(d) The administrative budget;

(e) Financial obligations of States Parties arising from the
implementation of this Agreement and Part XI as well as the administrative and
budgetary implications of proposals and recommendations involving expenditure
from the funds of the Authority;

(f) Rules, regulations and procedures on the equitable sharing of
financial and other economic benefits derived from activities in the Area and
the decisions to be made thereon.

8. Decisions in the Finance Committee on questions of procedure shall be taken
by a majority of members present and voting. Decisions on questions of
substance shall be taken by consensus.

/...



A/48/L.60
English
Page 23

9. The requirement of article 162, paragraph 2 (y), of the Convention to
establish a subsidiary organ to deal with financial matters shall be deemed to
have been fulfilled by the establishment of the Finance Committee in accordance
with this section.

-----


