





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/701
1 December 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 64

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND
DECISIONS ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS TENTH

SPECIAL SESSION

Report of the First Committee*

Rapporteur: Mr. Peter GOOSEN (South Africa)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions adopted
by the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

"(a) Report of the Disarmament Commission;

"(b) Report of the Conference on Disarmament;

"(c) Status of multilateral disarmament agreements;

"(d) Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters;

"(e) United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research;

"(f) Implementation of the guidelines and recommendations for objective
information on military matters;

________________________

* For the report of the Committee on item 64 (f), which was considered
together with item 53, see A/49/690.

94-47728 (E) 091294 /...



A/49/701
English
Page 2

*947728*
"(g) Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate types of

confidence-building measures"

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-ninth session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 36/92 H of 9 December 1981, 38/183 O of
20 December 1983, 39/148 H of 17 December 1984, 44/119 G of 15 December 1989,
45/62 F and G of 4 December 1990, 46/38 A to D of 6 September 1991, 47/54 A, E
and F of 9 December 1992 and 48/77 A and B of 16 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October 1994, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 53 to 66, 68 to 72 and 153. The deliberations on those
items took place at the 3rd to 10th meetings, from 17 to 24 October (see
A/C.1/49/PV.3-10). Structured discussions of specific subjects on the adopted
thematic approach took place from 25 to 27 and on 31 October and 1 November.
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 12th to
16th meetings, on 3, 4, 7 and 9 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.12-16). Action on
draft resolutions on those items was taken at the 19th to 25th meetings, from
14 to 18 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.19-25).

4. In connection with item 64, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; 2/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on implementation of the guidelines
for appropriate types of confidence-building measures (A/49/210 and Add.1);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on guidelines and recommendations for
objective information on military matters (A/49/225);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Advisory Board on
Disarmament Matters (A/49/360);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on the status of multilateral
disarmament agreements (A/49/379);

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27).

2/ Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/49/42).

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 3

(g) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Director
of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (A/49/329);

(h) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt to the Secretary-General, transmitting the documents of the Eleventh
Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Cairo
from 31 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and Corr.1);

(i) Letter dated 17 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/49/532-
S/1994/1179).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.1

5. On 24 October, Austria, Germany, Hungary, Romania, Sweden and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Objective information on military matters, including transparency of
military expenditures" (A/C.1/49/L.1). For the consideration of and action
taken on the draft resolution, see A/49/690.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.5 and Rev.1

6. On 31 October, Austria, Benin, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Jordan,
Mauritius, Pakistan, Poland, Sweden and Ukraine submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Report of the Disarmament Commission" (A/C.1/49/L.5).

7. On 14 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.5/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

(a) The fourth preambular paragraph, which had read:

"Noting the proposal for reconsidering the subject entitled ’The role
of science and technology in the context of international security,
disarmament and other related fields’ by the Disarmament Commission in the
near future",

was revised to read:

"Noting the various suggestions for possible consideration by the
Disarmament Commission, at an appropriate future date, including in
particular the one for reconsideration of the subject ’The role of science
and technology in the context of international security, disarmament and
other related fields’";

(b) Operative paragraph 10, which had read:

"10. Recommends also that the Disarmament Commission, at its 1994
organizational session, consider including in the agenda of its 1995

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 4

substantive session an item entitled ’General guidelines for
non-proliferation, with special emphasis on weapons of mass destruction’ or
’Review of the Declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade.’",

was revised to read:

"10. Also recommends that, pursuant to the adopted three-item phased
approach, the Disarmament Commission, at its 1994 organizational session,
consider including in the agenda of its 1995 substantive session a new
third item and, in this context, notes, inter alia, the following
proposals: ’General guidelines for non-proliferation, with special
emphasis on weapons of mass destruction’ and ’Review of the Declaration of
the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade’".

8. At its 21st meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted revised draft
resolution A/C.1/49/L.5/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 21, draft resolution A).

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.7 and Rev.1

9. On 31 October, Chile submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report of the
Conference on Disarmament" (A/C.1/49/L.7). The draft resolution was introduced
by the representative of Chile at the 16th meeting, on 9 November.

10. On 14 November, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia,
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Finland, Iraq, New Zealand, Norway,
the Republic of Korea, Senegal, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, the Syrian Arab
Republic, Turkey, Ukraine, Viet Nam and Zimbabwe submitted a revised draft
resolution (A/C.1/49/L.7/Rev.1), which was later also sponsored by Israel and
Sierra Leone. The revised draft contained the following changes:

(a) The title of the draft resolution was changed to "Expansion of the
membership of the Conference on Disarmament";

(b) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the words "enlarged membership is
essential" were replaced by the words "enlarged membership is desirable";

(c) Operative paragraph 1, which had read:

"1. Welcomes the report of 12 August 1993 of the Special Coordinator
for membership designated by the Conference on Disarmament and the list of
countries attached to that report, as well as the subsequent statement made
by the Special Coordinator on 23 August 1993, recommending a dynamic
solution to the question of membership",

was revised to read:

"1. Recalls the report of 12 August 1993 of the Special Coordinator
for membership designated by the Conference on Disarmament and the
subsequent statement made by the Special Coordinator on 23 August 1993,
recommending a dynamic solution to the question of membership";

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 5

(d) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

"2. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to make every effort to reach
a solution resulting, by the beginning of 1995, in a significant expansion
of its composition, which would then include at least sixty countries, as
recommended by the Special Coordinator",

was revised to read:

"2. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to make every effort to reach
a solution resulting, by the beginning of 1995, in a significant expansion
of its composition, which would include at least sixty countries".

11. At the 22nd meeting, on 17 November, the representative of Chile made the
following oral revisions:

(a) The last preambular paragraph became operative paragraph 1, the word
"Recognizing" being replaced with the word "Recognizes";

(b) Existing operative paragraphs 1 and 2 were renumbered 2 and 3;

(c) At the end of the new operative paragraph 2, after the word
"membership", the words "as well as the report of the Conference on Disarmament
on its 1994 session" were added.

12. At its 22nd meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted revised draft
resolution A/C.1/49/L.7/Rev.1, as orally revised without a vote (see para. 21,
draft resolution B).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.17 and Rev.1

13. On 1 November, the Islamic Republic of Iran submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Report of the Conference on Disarmament" (A/C.1/49/L.17).

14. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of the Islamic
Republic of Iran at the 16th meeting, on 9 November.

15. On 14 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.17/Rev.1).

16. In connection with the revised draft resolution, the Secretary-General
submitted a statement of programme budget implications (A/C.1/49/L.51).

17. At the 25th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of the Islamic
Republic of Iran orally revised the draft resolution by adding a new operative
paragraph 5, reading:

"5. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to make every effort to reach
a solution on the expansion of its membership by the beginning of its 1995
session";

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 6

and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs.

18. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.17/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 21, draft
resolution C).

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.21

19. On 1 November, Australia, Austria, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea,
Romania, Spain, Sweden and the United States of America submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures" (A/C.1/49/L.21), which was later also sponsored by
Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cameroon, the Czech
Republic, Kenya, Lithuania, Malta, Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation,
Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Germany at the 16th meeting,
on 9 November.

20. At its 22nd meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.21 by a recorded vote of 132 to none, with 16 abstentions (see
para. 21, resolution D). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 7

Against: None.

Abstaining: Algeria, Burkina Faso, Colombia, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Ecuador, India, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Venezuela.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

21. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session

A

Report of the Disarmament Commission

The General Assembly,

Having considered the annual report of the Disarmament Commission, 3/

Recalling its resolutions 47/54 A of 9 December 1992, 47/54 G of
8 April 1993 and 48/77 A of 16 December 1993,

Considering the role that the Disarmament Commission has been called upon
to play and the contribution that it should make in examining and submitting
recommendations on various problems in the field of disarmament and in the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant decisions adopted by the General
Assembly at its tenth special session,

Noting the various suggestions for possible consideration by the
Disarmament Commission, at an appropriate future date, including in particular
the one for reconsideration of the subject "The role of science and technology
in the context of international security, disarmament and other related fields",

1. Takes note of the annual report of the Disarmament Commission; 3/

2. Notes with regret that the Disarmament Commission was unable to
achieve agreement on guidelines and recommendations on the agenda item entitled
"The role of science and technology in the context of international security,
disarmament and other related fields", consideration of which was concluded in
1994;

3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/49/42).

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 8

3. Notes the continuing consideration by the Disarmament Commission of
the agenda item entitled "Process of nuclear disarmament in the framework of
international peace and security, with the objective of the elimination of
nuclear weapons", which is to be concluded in 1995;

4. Notes also that the Disarmament Commission held a preliminary exchange
of views on the agenda item entitled "International arms transfers, with
particular reference to General Assembly resolution 46/36 H of 6 December 1991";

5. Reaffirms the importance of further enhancing the dialogue and
cooperation among the First Committee, the Disarmament Commission and the
Conference on Disarmament;

6. Reaffirms also the role of the Disarmament Commission as the
specialized, deliberative body within the United Nations multilateral
disarmament machinery that allows for in-depth deliberations on specific
disarmament issues, leading to the submission of concrete recommendations on
those issues;

7. Encourages the Disarmament Commission to continue to make every effort
to enhance its working methods so as to enable it to give focused consideration
to a limited number of priority issues in the field of disarmament, bearing in
mind the decision it has taken to move its agenda towards a three-item phased
approach;

8. Requests the Disarmament Commission to continue its work in accordance
with its mandate, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 4/ and with paragraph 3 of
resolution 37/78 H of 9 December 1982, and to that end to make every effort to
achieve specific recommendations on the items of its agenda, taking into account
the adopted "Ways and means to enhance the functioning of the Disarmament
Commission"; 5/

9. Recommends that the Disarmament Commission, at its 1994 organizational
session, adopt the following items for consideration at its 1995 substantive
session:

(a) Process of nuclear disarmament in the framework of international peace
and security, with the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons;

(b) International arms transfers, with particular reference to General
Assembly resolution 46/36 H of 6 December 1991;

10. Also recommends that, pursuant to the adopted three-item phased
approach, the Disarmament Commission, at its 1994 organizational session,
consider including in the agenda of its 1995 substantive session a new third
item and, in this context, notes, inter alia, the following proposals: "General

4/ Resolution S-10/2.

5/ A/CN.10/137.

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 9

guidelines for non-proliferation, with special emphasis on weapons of mass
destruction" and "Review of the Declaration of the 1990s as the Third
Disarmament Decade";

11. Requests the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not exceeding
four weeks during 1995 and to submit a substantive report to the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament
Commission the annual report of the Conference on Disarmament, 6/ together
with all the official records of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly
relating to disarmament matters, and to render all assistance that the
Commission may require for implementing the present resolution;

13. Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure full provision to the
Commission and its subsidiary bodies of interpretation and translation
facilities in the official languages and to assign, as a matter of priority, all
the necessary resources and services, including verbatim records, to that end;

14. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Report of the Disarmament Commission".

B

Expansion of the membership of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Conference on Disarmament, 6/

Conscious of the need for a comprehensive approach to the disarmament
process and for improved functioning and efficiency of the multilateral arms
control and disarmament machinery, as also envisaged in the report of the
Secretary-General on new dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament in the
post-cold-war era, 7/

Recalling its relevant resolutions, in particular resolution 48/77 B of
16 December 1993, concerning, inter alia, the ongoing review by the Conference
on Disarmament of its agenda, composition and methods of work, which highlighted
the need for substantial enlargement of the present membership of the
Conference,

Fully convinced that an enlarged membership is desirable in order to take
advantage of the current propitious international climate to negotiate, on the
solid basis of a more representative participation, a comprehensive test-ban
treaty and other important agreements requiring universal adherence,

6/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27).

7/ A/C.1/47/7.



A/49/701
English
Page 10

Recalling that the Conference on Disarmament, which is funded from the
regular budget, was granted, pursuant to resolution 48/77 B, supplementary
administrative, substantive and conference support services, inter alia, in
anticipation of its expansion,

Recalling also its resolution 1722 (XVI) of 20 December 1961 regarding the
establishment of the Conference on Disarmament, then the Eighteen-Nation
Committee on Disarmament,

Emphasizing the fact that, notwithstanding dramatic changes in the
international situation and continuous consultations, there has been no
expansion of the membership of the Conference during the last fifteen years,

Welcoming the fact that the annual report of the Conference on Disarmament
reflects the intention of the Conference to reinstate its own procedures
providing for periodic review of its composition,

Regretting, however, that the Conference on Disarmament did not reach a
consensus that would result in the expansion of its membership before the start
of the 1994 session of the Conference, as urged by the General Assembly in its
resolution 48/77 B, nor was it able to resolve this question thereafter, in
spite of intensive efforts by the Friend of the Chair,

1. Recognizes the legitimate aspirations of the candidate countries to
participate fully in the work of the Conference on Disarmament;

2. Recalls the report of 12 August 1993 of the Special Coordinator for
membership designated by the Conference on Disarmament 8/ and the subsequent
statement made by the Special Coordinator on 23 August 1993, recommending a
dynamic solution to the question of membership, as well as the report of the
Conference on Disarmament on its 1994 session;

3. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to make every effort to reach a
solution resulting, by the beginning of 1995, in a significant expansion of its
composition, which would then include at least sixty countries.

C

Report of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Conference on Disarmament, 6/

Convinced that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
disarmament negotiating forum of the international community, has the primary
role in substantive negotiations on priority questions of disarmament,

8/ CD/1214; see Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth
Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27), para. 13.

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 11

Considering, in this respect, that the present international climate should
give additional impetus to multilateral negotiations with the aim of reaching
concrete agreements,

Welcoming the ongoing negotiations of the Conference on Disarmament on a
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty,

Noting with satisfaction the results achieved so far on the subject of
improved and effective functioning of the Conference on Disarmament, as well as
the decision to carry out consultations with a view to achieving consensus on
the issue of its membership by the beginning of its 1995 session and the
decision to continue consultations on the issue of the agenda at its 1995
session,

Recognizing that the Conference on Disarmament has a number of urgent and
important areas for negotiations,

1. Reaffirms the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international community;

2. Welcomes the determination of the Conference on Disarmament to fulfil
that role in the light of the evolving international situation, with a view to
making early substantive progress on priority items of its agenda;

3. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to continue as a priority task its
negotiations to conclude a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty;

4. Notes the recommendation of the Conference on Disarmament that the
balance of its future work be considered more fully by the Conference before it
decides which ad hoc committees, besides the Ad Hoc Committee on a Nuclear Test
Ban, should be established in 1995;

5. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to make every effort to reach a
solution on the expansion of its membership by the beginning of its 1995
session;

6. Encourages the ongoing review of the agenda, membership and methods of
work of the Conference on Disarmament;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure the provision, to
the Conference on Disarmament, of adequate administrative, substantive and
conference support services;

8. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to submit a report on its work
to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Report of the Conference on Disarmament".

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 12

D

Implementation of the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 43/78 H of 7 December 1988, in which it endorsed
the guidelines for appropriate types of confidence-building measures and for the
implementation of such measures on a global or regional level, and its
resolution 47/54 D, adopted without a vote on 9 December 1992,

Noting that since then national reports on the implementation of the
guidelines for appropriate types of confidence-building measures have been
submitted by a number of Member States belonging to different geographic
regions,

Reconfirming its support for the guidelines for appropriate types of
confidence-building measures and for the implementation of such measures on a
global or regional level,

Recalling that the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches
to disarmament within the context of global security, as endorsed by the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session, refer, inter alia, to confidence- and
security-building measures in the context of maintaining and enhancing regional
peace and security,

Welcoming progress at the global level in the promotion of transparency in
the military field as a cornerstone for confidence-building, through the United
Nations system for the standardized reporting of military expenditures,
contained in resolution 35/142 B of 12 December 1980, the endorsement of the
guidelines and recommendations for objective information on military matters,
contained in resolution 47/54 B of 9 December 1992, and the establishment of the
Register of Conventional Arms under resolution 46/36 L of 9 December 1991,

Noting with satisfaction the encouraging results of specific confidence-
building measures agreed upon and implemented in some regions which foster
mutual trust and understanding, defuse tensions and promote friendly relations
among States,

Welcoming, in particular, the establishment of regional mechanisms,
institutions or forums entrusted with the prevention and peaceful settlement of
conflicts, and the development of confidence-building measures,

Recognizing the value of regional workshops, seminars and conferences on
regional confidence-building and security, contributing to regional disarmament
and security,

Reaffirming the great importance of increasing security and stability in
all regions through appropriate measures to strengthen international peace and
security,

/...



A/49/701
English
Page 13

Realizing with deep concern, however, that tensions in some regions rise
and that even violent armed conflicts have erupted and continue, in some cases,
despite all peacemaking and peace-keeping efforts,

Emphasizing that confidence-building measures, especially when applied in a
comprehensive manner, can be conducive to achieving structures of security based
on cooperation and openness and thus contribute to the wider objective of the
renunciation of the threat or use of force,

1. Stresses the need for the development and implementation of
confidence-building measures as a concrete means to facilitate the disarmament
and arms limitation process and to improve the prospects for the peaceful
settlement of disputes, thus contributing to maintaining and enhancing regional
and international peace and security;

2. Recommends the guidelines for appropriate types of confidence-building
measures to all States for implementation, taking fully into account the
specific political, military and other conditions prevailing in a region;

3. Also recommends to all States and regions that have already started to
implement confidence-building measures to pursue further and strengthen this
process;

4. Appeals to all States to consider the widest possible use of
confidence-building measures in their international relations, including
bilateral, regional and global activities, as an important step towards
prevention of conflict and, in times of political tension and crisis, as an
instrument for peaceful settlement of conflicts;

5. Calls upon, in particular, all States in whose regions military
tensions exist, or armed conflicts occur, to make the best possible use of
confidence-building measures, among other appropriate activities, and if needed
in cooperation with other States, to ease tensions and to contribute to
peacemaking and peace-building;

6. Invites the Secretary-General to continue to collect relevant
information from all Member States;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session an item entitled "Confidence-building measures".

-----


