





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/624
11 November 1994
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda items 82 and 18

ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN ECONOMIC AND OTHER INTERESTS WHICH
IMPEDE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE
GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES

IN TERRITORIES UNDER COLONIAL DOMINATION

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Dieudonné NDIAYE (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-ninth session the item entitled:

"Activities of foreign economic and other interests which impede the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories under colonial domination."

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Special
Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 5 October 1994, the Fourth Committee decided to hold
a general debate covering agenda items 18, 81, 82, 83 and 12, and 84, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would
be considered separately.

94-44400 (E) 221194 /...



A/49/624
English
Page 2

3. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee decided, without objection and in
accordance with established practice, to consider, in conjunction with agenda
item 82, chapter V of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to military activities and
arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration. 1/

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

4. The Fourth Committee considered item 82 at its 2nd, 5th, 6th and
13th meetings, on 5, 12, 13 and 28 October (see A/C.4/49/SR.2, 5, 6 and 13).
The general debate on the items referred to above, including the present item,
took place at the 5th and 6th meetings, on 12 and 13 October.

5. Also at the 2nd meeting, on 5 October, the Rapporteur of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a
statement in which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special
Committee during 1944 and drew attention to chapter IV of the report of that
Committee relating to item 82, 1/ as well as the relevant documentation
(A/AC.109/1191). The Rapporteur also gave an account of the Committee’s
consideration, in pursuance of paragraph 7 of General Assembly decision 48/421
of 10 December 1993, of the question of military activities and arrangements by
colonial Powers in Territories under their administration and drew attention to
chapter V of the report of the Committee. 1/

6. At its 13th meeting, on 28 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 11 of chapter IV of the report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
(A/49/23 (Part III)) by a recorded vote of 94 to 38, with 5 abstentions
(see para. 8). 2/ The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte

1/ See A/49/23 (Part III). To be incorporated in Official Records of the
General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/49/23).

2/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Germany (on behalf of the European Union), the Russian Federation and the United
States of America.

3/ The delegation of Senegal informed the Committee that it had intended
to vote in favour of the draft resolution. Subsequently, the delegation of
Bulgaria informed the Secretariat that it had intended to vote against the draft
resolution.

/...



A/49/624
English
Page 3

d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain,
Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Russian Federation, Senegal.

7. At its 13th meeting, on 28 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
decision contained in paragraph 11 of chapter V of the report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
(A/49/23 (Part III)) by a recorded vote of 93 to 41, with 3 abstentions (see
para. 9). 4/ The voting was as follows: 5/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,

4/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Germany (on behalf of the European Union), the Russian Federation and the United
States.

5/ Subsequently, the delegation of Bulgaria informed the Secretariat that
it had intended to vote against the draft decision.

/...



A/49/624
English
Page 4

Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium,
Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Spain,
Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

8. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolution:

Activities of foreign economic and other interests which impede
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories

under colonial domination

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Activities of foreign economic and
other interests which impede the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Territories under
colonial domination",

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, 6/

6/ A/49/23 (Part III), chap. IV.

/...



A/49/624
English
Page 5

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
as well as all its other resolutions on this subject, including, in particular,
resolution 46/181 of 19 December 1991, endorsing the Plan of Action for the
International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, 7/

Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their
administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those
Territories against abuses,

Reaffirming also that any economic or other activity that constitutes an
obstacle to the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and obstructs efforts aimed at
the elimination of colonialism is a direct violation of the rights of the
inhabitants and of the principles of the Charter and all relevant resolutions of
the United Nations,

Reaffirming further that the natural resources are the heritage of the
indigenous populations of the colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories,

Concerned about the activities of those foreign economic, financial and
other interests that exploit the natural and human resources of the
Non-Self-Governing Territories to the detriment of the interests of the
inhabitants of those Territories and deprive them of their right to control the
wealth of their countries,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity, the South Pacific Forum and the Caribbean
Community,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination and independence and to the
enjoyment of the natural resources of their Territories, as well as their right
to dispose of those resources in their best interests;

2. Reiterates that any administering Power that deprives the colonial
peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories of the exercise of their legitimate
rights over their natural resources, or subordinates the rights and interests of
those peoples to foreign economic and financial interests, violates the solemn
obligations it has assumed under the Charter of the United Nations;

7/ See A/46/634/Rev.1.

/...



A/49/624
English
Page 6

3. Reaffirms its concern over the activities of those foreign economic,
financial and other interests which continue to exploit the natural resources
that are the heritage of the indigenous populations of the colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories in the Caribbean, the Pacific and other regions,
as well as their human resources, to the detriment of their interests, thus
depriving them of their right to control the resources of their Territories and
impeding the realization by those peoples of their legitimate aspirations for
self-determination and independence;

4. Condemns those activities of foreign economic and other interests in
the colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), and
the efforts to eliminate colonialism;

5. Calls once again upon all Governments that have not yet done so to
take, in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolution
2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other measures in
respect of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction
that own and operate enterprises in colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories
that are detrimental to the interests of the inhabitants of those Territories,
in order to put an end to such enterprises and to prevent new investments that
run counter to the interests of the inhabitants of those Territories;

6. Reiterates that the exploitation and plundering of the marine and
other natural resources of colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories by
foreign economic interests, in violation of the relevant resolutions of the
United Nations, is a threat to the integrity and prosperity of those
Territories;

7. Invites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations system
to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty of the
peoples of colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories over their natural
resources is fully respected and safeguarded;

8. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories to their natural resources and to establish and
maintain control over the future development of those resources, and requests
the administering Powers to take all necessary steps to protect the property
rights of the peoples of those Territories;

9. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no
discriminatory and unjust wage systems or working conditions prevail in the
Territories under their administration and to apply in each Territory a uniform
system of wages to all the inhabitants without any discrimination;

/...



A/49/624
English
Page 7

10. Requests the Secretary-General to continue, through all means at his
disposal, to inform world public opinion of those activities of foreign economic
and other interests which impede the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

11. Appeals to the mass media, trade unions and non-governmental
organizations, as well as individuals, to continue their efforts for the full
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples;

12. Decides to continue to monitor closely the situation in the colonial
and Non-Self-Governing Territories so as to ensure that all economic activities
in those Territories are aimed at strengthening and diversifying their economies
in the interest of the indigenous peoples and at promoting the economic and
financial viability of those Territories, in order to facilitate and accelerate
the exercise by the peoples of those Territories of their right to
self-determination and independence;

13. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon
to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session.

9. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) also
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft decision:

Military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers
in Territories under their administration

1. The General Assembly, having considered the chapter of the report of
the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
relating to an item on the agenda of the Special Committee entitled "Military
activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their
administration", 8/ and recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960
and all other relevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating
to military activities in colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories, reaffirms
its strong conviction that military bases and installations in the Territories
concerned could constitute an obstacle to the exercise by the people of those
Territories of their right to self-determination, and reiterates its strong
views that existing bases and installations, which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, should be withdrawn.

8/ A/49/23 (Part III), chap. V.

/...



A/49/624
English
Page 8

2. Aware of the presence of such bases and installations in some of those
Territories, the General Assembly urges the administering Powers concerned to
continue to take all necessary measures not to involve those Territories in any
offensive acts or interference against other States.

3. The General Assembly reiterates its concern that military activities
and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration
might run counter to the rights and interests of the colonial peoples concerned,
especially their right to self-determination and independence. The Assembly
once again calls upon the administering Powers concerned to terminate such
activities and to eliminate such military bases in compliance with its relevant
resolutions.

4. The General Assembly reiterates that the colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories and areas adjacent thereto should not be used for
nuclear testing, dumping of nuclear wastes or deployment of nuclear and other
weapons of mass destruction.

5. The General Assembly deplores the continued alienation of land in
colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories, particularly in the small island
Territories of the Pacific and Caribbean regions, for military installations.
The large-scale utilization of the local resources for this purpose could
adversely affect the economic development of the Territories concerned.

6. The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to continue to
inform world public opinion of those military activities and arrangements in
colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories which constitute an obstacle to the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples.

7. The General Assembly requests the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this
question and to report thereon to the Assembly at its fiftieth session.

-----


