





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/697
28 November 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 60

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS TO
ASSURE NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON STATES AGAINST THE USE OR

THREAT OF USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Peter GOOSEN (South Africa)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons" was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-ninth session in
accordance with General Assembly resolution 48/73 of 16 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to
it, namely, items 53 to 66, 68 to 72 and 153. The deliberations on those items
took place at the 3rd to 10th meetings, from 17 to 24 October (see
A/C.1/49/PV.3-10). Structured discussions of specific subjects on the adopted
thematic approach took place from 25 to 27 and on 31 October and 1 November.
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 12th to 16th
meetings, on 3, 4, 7 and 9 November. Action on draft resolution on those items
took place at the 19th to 25th meetings, from 14 to 18 November (see
A/C.1/49/PV.19-25).

4. In connection with item 60, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

94-46986 (E) 021294 /...



A/49/697
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt to the Secretary-General transmitting the texts of the documents adopted
by the Eleventh Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Cairo from 31 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and Corr.1).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/49/L.41

5. On 3 November, Bangladesh, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Madagascar, Myanmar, Nepal,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka, the Sudan and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons"
(A/C.1/49/L.41), which was later also sponsored by Turkmenistan. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Pakistan at the 21st meeting,
on 16 November.

6. At its 21st meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.41
by a recorded vote of 142 to none, with 3 abstentions (see para. 7). The voting
was as follows: 2/

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27).

2/ Subsequently the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had intended
to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/697
English
Page 3

Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or

threat of use of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States of
the world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples,

Convinced that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and to
the survival of civilization,

Welcoming the progress achieved in recent years in both nuclear and
conventional disarmament,

Noting that, despite recent progress in the field of nuclear disarmament,
further efforts are necessary towards the achievement of the goal of general and
complete disarmament under effective international control,

Convinced that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

Determined to abide strictly by the relevant provisions of the Charter of
the United Nations on the non-use of force or threat of force,

Recognizing that the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of
non-nuclear-weapon States need to be safeguarded against the use or threat of
use of force, including the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal
basis, it is imperative for the international community to develop effective

/...



A/49/697
English
Page 4

measures and arrangements to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Recognizing that effective measures and arrangements to assure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
can contribute positively to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

Bearing in mind paragraph 59 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 3/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament, in which it urged the nuclear-weapon States to pursue efforts to
conclude, as appropriate, effective arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and desirous of
promoting the implementation of the relevant provisions of the Final Document,

Recalling the relevant parts of the special report of the Committee on
Disarmament, 4/ submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special
session, 5/ the second special session devoted to disarmament, and of the
special report of the Conference on Disarmament submitted to the Assembly at its
fifteenth special session, 6/ the third special session devoted to
disarmament, as well as of the report of the Conference on its 1992
session, 7/

Recalling also paragraph 12 of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second
Disarmament Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 35/46 of
3 December 1980, which states, inter alia, that all efforts should be exerted by
the Committee on Disarmament 4/ urgently to negotiate with a view to reaching
agreement on effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Noting the in-depth negotiations undertaken in the Conference on Disarmament
and its Ad Hoc Committee on Effective International Arrangements to Assure
Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use of Nuclear
Weapons, 8/ with a view to reaching agreement on this item,

3/ Resolution S-10/2.

4/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Supplement No. 2 (A/S-12/2), sect. III.C.

6/ Ibid., Fifteenth Special Session, Supplement No. 2 (A/S-15/2),
sect. III.F.

7/ Ibid., Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27),
sect. III.F.

8/ Ibid., Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27), para. 39.

/...



A/49/697
English
Page 5

Taking note of the proposals submitted under that item in the Conference on
Disarmament, including the drafts of an international convention,

Taking note also of the decision of the Tenth Conference of Heads of State
or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to
6 September 1992, 9/ as well as the relevant recommendations of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference reiterated in the Final Communiqué of the
Twentieth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Istanbul from 4 to
8 August 1991, 10/ calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to reach an
urgent agreement on an international convention to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Taking note further of the unilateral declarations made by all nuclear-
weapon States on their policies of non-use or non-threat of use of nuclear
weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States,

Noting the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
as well as the difficulties pointed out in evolving a common approach acceptable
to all,

Noting also the greater willingness to overcome the difficulties encountered
in previous years,

Recalling its relevant resolutions adopted in previous years, in particular
resolutions 45/54 of 4 December 1990, 46/32 of 6 December 1991, 47/50 of
9 December 1992 and 48/73 of 16 December 1993,

1. Reaffirms the urgent need to reach an early agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons;

2. Notes with satisfaction that in the Conference on Disarmament there is
no objection, in principle, to the idea of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
although the difficulties as regards evolving a common approach acceptable to
all have also been pointed out;

3. Appeals to all States, especially the nuclear-weapon States, to work
actively towards an early agreement on a common approach and, in particular, on
a common formula that could be included in an international instrument of a
legally binding character;

9/ See A/47/675-S/24816, annex, chap. II, para. 47; see Official Records
of the Security Council, Forty-seventh Year, Supplement for October, November
and December 1992, document S/24816.

10/ See A/46/486-S/23055, annex I; see Official Records of the Security
Council, Forty-sixth Year, Supplement for July, August and September 1991,
document S/23055.

/...



A/49/697
English
Page 6

4. Recommends that further intensive efforts should be devoted to the
search for such a common approach or common formula and that the various
alternative approaches, including, in particular, those considered in the
Conference on Disarmament, should be further explored in order to overcome the
difficulties;

5. Recommends also that the Conference on Disarmament should actively
continue intensive negotiations with a view to reaching early agreement and
concluding effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, taking into account
the widespread support for the conclusion of an international convention and
giving consideration to any other proposals designed to secure the same
objective;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons".

-----


