





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/49/L.47
2 December 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 35

LAW OF THE SEA

Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Brazil, Cameroon, Canada, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Egypt, Fiji,
Finland, France, Germany, Guyana, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Kenya, Malaysia, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Myanmar,
Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Paraguay,
Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay and Vanuatu: draft

resolution

The General Assembly,

Conscious of the fundamental importance of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea 1/ for the maintenance and strengthening of international
peace and security,

Recognizing the universal character of the Convention and the establishment
through it of a legal order for the seas and oceans which will facilitate
international communication and promote the peaceful uses of the seas and
oceans, the equitable and efficient utilization of their resources, the
conservation of their living resources and the study, protection and
preservation of the marine environment,

Considering that, in its resolution 2749 (XXV) of 17 December 1970, the
General Assembly proclaimed that the seabed and ocean floor, and the subsoil
thereof, beyond the limits of national jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as
"the Area"), as well as the resources of the Area, are the common heritage of

1/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.

94-47945 (E) 031294 /...



A/49/L.47
English
Page 2

mankind, and that the Convention provides the regime to be applied to the Area
and its resources,

Welcoming the adoption on 28 July 1994 of the Agreement relating to the
implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
of 10 December 1982 (hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement"), 2/ aimed at
facilitating universal participation in the Convention,

Recognizing that the entry into force of the Convention on 16 November 1994
marks an historic event in international relations and in the development of
international law,

Welcoming the holding of the first meeting of the International Seabed
Authority at its headquarters in Jamaica,

Noting with satisfaction the convening, on 21 and 22 November 1994 in
New York, of a meeting of States parties to the Convention concerning the
establishment of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea,

Noting also that the Agreement provides that the institutions established
by the Convention should be cost-effective,

Noting further that the Agreement provides that the International Seabed
Authority shall have its own budget and that the administrative expenses of the
Authority shall initially be met from the regular budget of the United
Nations, 3/

Acknowledging that the International Seabed Authority is an autonomous
organization under the Convention,

Emphasizing the principle stated in the Convention that the problems of
ocean space are closely interrelated and need to be considered as a whole,

Convinced therefore of the importance of the annual consideration and
review of the overall developments relating to the law of the sea by the General
Assembly as the global institution having the competence to undertake such a
review,

Conscious of the strategic importance of the Convention as a framework for
national, regional and global action in the marine sector, as recognized also by

2/ Resolution 48/263.

3/ See resolution 48/263, paragraph 8, and also Section 1, paragraph 14,
of the Annex to the Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982, which is
contained in the annex to the resolution.

/...



A/49/L.47
English
Page 3

the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in chapter 17 of
Agenda 21, 4/

Aware of the importance of the effective implementation of the Convention
and its uniform and consistent application, as well as the need to promote
harmonious interaction in the uses of the ocean and to create favourable
conditions for peace and order in the oceans,

Recalling that the General Assembly in its resolution 37/66 of
3 December 1982 approved the assumption by the Secretary-General of the
responsibilities entrusted to him under the Convention and related resolutions
of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, as well as the
functions resulting therefrom which were subsequently elaborated in the report
of the Secretary-General and approved by the General Assembly, 5/

Noting the additional responsibilities of the Secretary-General arising
from the entry into force of the Convention,

Recognizing the impact on States of the entry into force of the Convention
in the light of the rights and obligations arising therefrom and the increasing
needs of States, especially developing States, for advice and assistance in the
implementation of the Convention and to develop and strengthen their
capabilities in order to enable them to benefit fully from the legal regime for
the seas and oceans established by the Convention,

Conscious of the need to promote and facilitate international cooperation,
especially at subregional and regional levels, in order to ensure the orderly
and sustainable development of the uses and resources of the seas and oceans,

1. Recalls the historic significance of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea as an important contribution to the maintenance of peace,
justice and progress for all peoples of the world;

2. Expresses its profound satisfaction at the entry into force of the
Convention;

3. Calls upon all States that have not done so to become parties to the
Convention and the Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 in order to
achieve the goal of universal participation;

4. Expresses its satisfaction at the establishment of the International
Seabed Authority;

4/ Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1 (Vol. I and
Vol. I/Corr.1, Vol. II, Vol. III and Vol. III/Corr.1)) (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by
the Conference, resolution 1, annex I.

5/ A/38/570, paras. 41 and 42.

/...



A/49/L.47
English
Page 4

5. Welcomes the first meeting of States parties to the Convention
concerning the establishment of the International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea;

6. Expresses its satisfaction at the progress being made in the
establishment of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf;

7. Reaffirms the unified character of the Convention;

8. Calls upon States to harmonize their national legislation with the
provisions of the Convention and to ensure consistent application of those
provisions;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to implement the decision of the
General Assembly contained in paragraph 8 of its resolution 48/263 of
28 July 1993, taking into account the decisions and recommendations of the
Preparatory Commission for the International Seabed Authority and for the
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (hereinafter referred to as "the
Preparatory Commission");

10. Also requests the Secretary-General to provide, from within existing
resources, such services as may be required for the meetings of States parties
to the Convention and for the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf;

11. Further requests the Secretary-General, from within existing
resources, to convene a meeting of States parties relating to the organization
of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea in New York from 15 to
19 May 1995 and, pursuant to the recommendations of the Preparatory Commission
and the decision of the meeting of States parties of 22 November 1994, to
designate before 16 May 1995 a United Nations staff member with secretariat
support to be charged with making preparations of a practical nature for the
organization of the Tribunal, including the establishment of a library;

12. Decides to undertake an annual review and evaluation of the
implementation of the Convention and other developments relating to ocean
affairs and the law of the sea;

13. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the report
prepared pursuant to paragraph 24 of General Assembly resolution 48/28, 6/ and
requests him to carry out the activities outlined therein, as well as those
aimed at the strengthening of the legal regime of the seas and oceans;

14. Notes with appreciation the functions and role of the Division for
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, which has contributed to the wider
acceptance and rational and consistent application of the provisions of the
Convention,

6/ A/49/631.

/...



A/49/L.47
English
Page 5

15. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to carry out the
responsibilities entrusted to him upon the adoption of the Convention 7/ and
to fulfil the functions consequent upon the entry into force of the Convention,
in particular by:

(a) Preparing annually a comprehensive report, for the consideration of
the General Assembly, on developments relating to the law of the sea taking into
account relevant scientific and technological developments, which could also
serve as a basis for reports to all States parties to the Convention, the
International Seabed Authority and competent international organizations, and
which the Secretary-General is required to provide under the Convention; 8/

(b) Formulating recommendations for the consideration of, and for action
by, the General Assembly or other appropriate intergovernmental forums, and
undertaking special studies, including through the convening of meetings of
groups of experts, aimed at a better understanding of the provisions of the
Convention and facilitating their effective implementation;

(c) Preparing periodically special reports on specific topics of current
interest, including those requested by intergovernmental conferences and bodies,
and providing secretariat services to such conferences in accordance with
decisions of the General Assembly;

(d) Strengthening the existing system for the collection, compilation and
dissemination of information on the law of the sea and related matters and
developing, in cooperation with the relevant international organizations, a
centralized system with integrated databases for providing coordinated
information and advice, inter alia, on legislation and marine policy, taking
into account chapter 17, paragraph 17.117 (b), of Agenda 21, 9/ as well as
establishing a system for notifying Member States and relevant international
organizations and bodies of information of general interest submitted by States
and intergovernmental bodies;

(e) Ensuring that the institutional capacity of the Organization can
respond to requests of States, in particular developing States, and competent
international organizations for advice and assistance and to identify additional
sources of support for national, subregional and regional efforts to implement
the Convention, taking into account the special needs of developing
countries; 10/

(f) Establishing appropriate facilities, as required by the Convention,
for the deposit by States of maps, charts and geographic coordinates concerning
national maritime zones and establishing a system for their recording and

7/ Resolution 37/66.

8/ Article 319 (2) (a) and 3 (a) (i) of the Convention.

9/ See also chapter 17, para. 17.116, of Agenda 21.

10/ See A/38/570, para. 42, and resolution 48/28, para. 14.

/...



A/49/L.47
English
Page 6

publicity as part of an integrated programme on the law of the sea and ocean
affairs, distinct from the usual depositary functions of the Secretary-
General; 11/

(g) Preparing for, and convening the meetings of States parties to the
Convention and providing the necessary services for such meetings, in accordance
with the Convention; 12/

(h) Preparing for the meetings of the Commission on the Limits of the
Continental Shelf and providing the necessary services to the Commission, in
accordance with the Convention; 13/

16. Also requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements
within the integrated programme for administering and supporting the
conciliation and arbitration procedures for the resolution of disputes, as
required of him under the Convention; 14/

17. Calls upon all States and competent international organizations to
cooperate fully with the Secretary-General in the discharge of his mandate;

18. Invites the competent international organizations to assess the
implications of the entry into force of the Convention in their respective
fields of competence and to identify additional measures that may need to be
taken as a consequence of its entry into force with a view to ensuring a
uniform, consistent and coordinated approach to the implementation of the
provisions of the Convention throughout the United Nations system; 15/

19. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive report on
the impact of the entry into force of the Convention on related existing or
proposed instruments and programmes throughout the United Nations system, and to
submit the report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

20. Invites the competent international organizations, as well as
development and funding institutions, to take specific account in their
programmes and activities of the impact of the entry into force of the
Convention on the needs of States, especially developing States, for technical
and financial assistance, and to support subregional or regional initiatives
aimed at cooperation in the effective implementation of the Convention;

11/ See articles 16 (2), 47 (9), 75 (2), 76 (9) and 84 (2) of the
Convention.

12/ Article 319 (2) (e) of the Convention.

13/ Article 76 (8) and Annex II of the Convention.

14/ See Annexes V, VII and VIII of the Convention.

15/ See chapter 17 of Agenda 21, in particular paras. 17.116 and 17.117.

/...



A/49/L.47
English
Page 7

21. Also invites Member States and others in a position to do so to
contribute to the further development of the Fellowship Programme and
educational activities on the law of the sea established by the General Assembly
in its resolution 35/116 of 10 December 1980;

22. Requests the Secretary-General to take fully into account the
requirements under the Convention and the present resolution in the preparation
of an integrated programme on ocean affairs and the law of the sea which should
be duly reflected in the proposed programme budget for 1996-1997 and the medium-
term plan for 1998-2003;

23. Also requests the Secretary-General to report, in accordance with
paragraph 15 (a) above, to the General Assembly annually as from its fiftieth
session on developments pertaining to the implementation of the Convention as
well as on other developments relating to ocean affairs and the law of the sea,
and on the implementation of the present resolution;

24. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Law of the sea".

-----


