





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/738
2 December 1994
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 137

REPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL LAW COMMISSION ON THE
WORK OF ITS FORTY-SIXTH SESSION

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapporteur: Mrs. Silvia A. FERNÁNDEZ de GURMENDI (Argentina)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda
the item entitled "Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its
forty-sixth session" and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

2. In connection with the item, the Sixth Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its forty-
sixth session; 1/

(b) Note by the Secretary-General containing the text of the draft
articles adopted by the International Law Commission on topics considered at its
forty-sixth session (A/49/355);

(c) Letter dated 4 November 1994 from the Acting Permanent Representative
of Japan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.6/49/3);

(d) Letter dated 18 November 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/C.6/49/5).

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 10 (A/49/10).

94-48051 (E) 071294 /...



A/49/738
English
Page 2

3. The Sixth Committee considered the item at its 16th to 28th meetings, from
24 October to 4 November, and at its 40th and 41st meetings, on 25 and
29 November 1994. The summary records of those meetings contain the views of
the representatives who spoke during the Committee’s consideration of the item
(A/C.6/49/SR.16-28, 40 and 41).

4. At the 16th meeting, on 24 October, the Chairman of the International Law
Commission at its forty-sixth session introduced the Commission’s report on the
work of that session. At the 28th meeting, on 4 November, the Chairman of the
Commission made a closing statement.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.22

5. At its 41st meeting, on 29 November, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution submitted by its Chairman, entitled "Report of the International Law
Commission on the work of its forty-sixth session" (A/C.6/49/L.22).

6. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.22
without a vote (see para. 32, draft resolution I).

7. A statement in explanation of position was made by the representative of
Cameroon (see A/C.6/49/SR.41).

B. Draft resolution on the draft articles on the law of the
non-navigational uses of international watercourses

8. At its 40th meeting, on 25 November, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution submitted by its Chairman, entitled "Draft articles on the law of the
non-navigational uses of international watercourses" (A/C.6/49/L.27), which
read:

"The General Assembly,

"Having considered chapter III of the report of the International Law
Commission on the work of its forty-sixth session, 1/ which contains final
draft articles of and commentaries on the law of the non-navigational uses
of international watercourses,

"Noting that the Commission decided to recommend the draft articles to
the General Assembly, and recommended the elaboration of a convention by
the Assembly or by an international conference of plenipotentiaries on the
basis of the draft articles,

"Mindful of Article 13, paragraph 1 (a), of the Charter of the United
Nations, which provides that the General Assembly shall initiate studies
and make recommendations for the purpose of encouraging the progressive
development of international law and its codification,

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 3

"Believing that successful codification and progressive development of
the rules of international law governing the non-navigational uses of
international watercourses would assist in promoting and implementing the
purposes and principles set forth in Articles 1 and 2 of the Charter,

"Taking into account the existence of bilateral or multilateral
agreements governing the non-navigational uses of international
watercourses, which should not be affected by the adoption of a new
international instrument unless the parties to those agreements have
otherwise decided,

"1. Expresses its appreciation to the International Law Commission
for its valuable work on the law of the non-navigational uses of
international watercourses, and to the successive special rapporteurs for
their contribution to that work;

"2. Invites States to submit, not later than 1 August 1995, written
comments and observations on the draft articles adopted by the
International Law Commission;

"3. Decides that, at the beginning of its fiftieth session, the Sixth
Committee shall convene as a Working Group of the Whole for three weeks
from 2 to 20 October 1995 to elaborate a framework convention on the law of
the non-navigational uses of international watercourses on the basis of the
draft articles adopted by the International Law Commission in the light of
the written comments of States as well as views expressed in the debate at
the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly;

"4. Also decides that the Working Group of the Whole shall, without
prejudice to the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, follow the
methods of work and procedures outlined in the annex to the present
resolution, subject to any modifications which it may deem appropriate;

"5. Requests the Secretary-General to arrange for the presence of the
Special Rapporteur on the law of the non-navigational uses of international
watercourses as an expert during the debates on the topic at the fiftieth
session of the General Assembly, and to submit at that session all relevant
documentation;

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session an item entitled ’Convention on the law of the non-navigational
uses of international watercourses’.

"ANNEX

"Methods of work and procedures

"The draft articles prepared by the International Law Commission shall
be the basic proposal before the Working Group of the Whole.

"The Working Group of the Whole shall start at once with a discussion
of the draft articles on an article by article basis, without prejudice to

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 4

the possibility of considering simultaneously closely connected articles,
the decisions on article 2 on ’Use of terms’ being reserved for the
concluding stages of the work.

"The Working Group of the Whole shall establish a Drafting Committee.
The Chairman of the Working Group shall determine the composition of the
Drafting Committee. The Drafting Committee shall elect its own Chairman.

"Once considered by the Working Group of the Whole, each article or
group of articles shall be referred to the Drafting Committee for
examination in the light of the discussion.

"The Drafting Committee shall make recommendations to the Working
Group of the Whole in relation to each article or group of articles. It
shall also prepare and present to the Working Group of the Whole, for its
approval, a draft preamble and a set of final clauses.

"The Working Group of the Whole shall endeavour to adopt all texts by
general agreement. Failing such an agreement within a reasonable period of
time, it will take its decisions in accordance with the rules of procedure
of the General Assembly."

9. Amendments to the draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.27 were proposed by
Bangladesh (A/C.6/49/L.28), by which:

(a) In operative paragraph 2, the date 1 August 1995 would be replaced
with 1 January 1996;

(b) A new operative paragraph would be inserted after operative
paragraph 2, reading:

"Requests the Secretary-General to circulate not later than
15 February 1996 written comments and observations submitted by States on
the subject";

(c) Operative paragraph 3 would be replaced with the following:

"3. Decides to convene an international conference of
plenipotentiaries to elaborate and conclude a convention on the law of the
non-navigational uses of international watercourses on the basis of the
draft articles recommended by the International Law Commission, the written
comments and observations of States submitted under operative paragraph 2,
and the views expressed in the debate on the subject at the forty-ninth
session of the General Assembly";

(d) Operative paragraph 4 would be replaced with the following:

"4. Also decides that the date and place of the conference shall be
determined at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, due
consideration being given to the need for adequate preparatory work,
circulation of the comments of States and previous reports of the Special

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 5

Rapporteurs of the International Law Commission on this subject with a view
to ensuring the widest possible agreement at the conference";

(e) The annex would be deleted.

10. At its 41st meeting, on 29 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.6/49/L.27/Rev.1) submitted by its Chairman.

11. Also at the 41st meeting, it was announced that the amendments submitted by
Bangladesh (A/C.6/49/L.28) were not insisted upon.

12. At the same meeting, the representative of the Sudan requested a separate
vote on the penultimate preambular paragraph of the revised draft resolution.

13. Statements in explanation of position on the penultimate preambular
paragraph of the draft resolution were made by the representatives of France,
Canada and Slovakia (see A/C.6/49/SR.41).

14. By a recorded vote of 93 to 2, with 20 abstentions, the Committee decided
to retain the penultimate preambular paragraph of revised draft resolution
A/C.6/49/L.27/Rev.1. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus,
Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Suriname, Sweden,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Zambia.

Against: Ethiopia, Sudan.

Abstaining: Botswana, Cuba, Ecuador, Fiji, Guyana, Haiti, India, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kenya, Lesotho, Mozambique,
Niger, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Uganda, United Republic
of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.

15. The Committee then adopted draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.27/Rev.1, as a
whole, without a vote (see para. 32, draft resolution II).



A/49/738
English
Page 6

16. Statements in explanation of position on the draft resolution were made by
the representatives of the Sudan and Ethiopia (see A/C.6/49/SR.41).

C. Draft resolution on the establishment of an
international criminal court

17. The Committee initially had before it a draft resolution entitled "Question
of the establishment of an international criminal court" (A/C.6/49/L.5)
submitted by Costa Rica, Japan, Romania, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the United States of America, later joined by the Republic
of Korea and the Republic of Moldova, which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 48/31 of 9 December 1993, in which it
requested the International Law Commission to continue its work on the
question of a draft statute for an international criminal court with a view
to elaborating a draft statute if possible at its forty-sixth session in
1994,

"Noting with satisfaction that the International Law Commission has
completed its work on such a draft statute, 2/

"Recognizing the contribution now being made by the International
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations
of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former
Yugoslavia since 1991,

"1. Expresses its appreciation to the International Law Commission
for having elaborated and presented a draft statute for the establishment
of an international criminal court;

"2. Decides to establish an ad hoc committee open to all Member
States to prepare for decisions at the fiftieth session in connection with
consideration of the draft statute prepared by the International Law
Commission;

"3. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to review the major substantive and
administrative issues relating to the establishment of an international
criminal court, including issues arising out of the report of the
International Law Commission 1/ and to provide its views and conclusions to
the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to invite the International
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations
of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former
Yugoslavia since 1991 to participate in the work of the Ad Hoc Committee;

2/ Ibid., para. 91.

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 7

"5. Decides that the Ad Hoc Committee will meet from ... to ... 1995,
and requests the Secretary-General to provide the Ad Hoc Committee with the
necessary facilities for the performance of its work;

"6. Requests the Secretary-General to present to the Ad Hoc Committee
a preliminary report with provisional estimates of the staffing, structure
and costs of the establishment and operation of an international criminal
court;

"7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session an item entitled ’Question of the establishment of an international
criminal court’."

18. Amendments to draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.5 were proposed by the delegation
of Ghana (A/C.6/49/L.8), by which:

(a) The third preambular paragraph would be deleted;

(b) Operative paragraph 2 would be deleted;

(c) Operative paragraph 3 would be replaced with the following:

"2. Decides to establish an ad hoc committee open to all Member
States with the mandate to review the major substantive and administrative
issued relating to the establishment of an international criminal court,
including issues arising out of the report of the International Law
Commission, and to provide its views and conclusions to the General
Assembly for transmission to the United Nations conference of
plenipotentiaries on an international criminal court";

(d) Operative paragraph 4 would be deleted;

(e) Operative paragraph 5 would be replaced with the following:

"3. Decides that the Ad Hoc Committee will meet for a two-week period
in the spring of 1995, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the
Ad Hoc Committee with the necessary facilities for the performance of its
work";

(f) Operative paragraph 6 would be renumbered paragraph 4.

(g) A new operative paragraph 5 would be inserted, reading:

"5. Decides to convene a United Nations conference of
plenipotentiaries for a period of 4 to 6 weeks in the spring of 1996 to
elaborate and adopt the statute of an international criminal court";

(h) A new operative paragraph 6 would be inserted, reading:

"6. Decides also that the draft statute of an international criminal
court and commentaries by the International Law Commission, the summary of
the debate in the Sixth Committee at the forty-ninth session of the General

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 8

Assembly on the report of the International Law Commission, the summary of
the debate in, and the report of, the Ad Hoc Committee, as well as the
comments of States, shall be transmitted by the Secretary-General to the
United Nations Conference of Plenipotentiaries as background documentation
for the elaboration and adoption of the statute of an international
criminal court";

(i) A new operative paragraph 7 would be inserted, reading:

"7. Accepts with gratitude the offer of the Government of Italy to
host the United Nations Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the elaboration
and adoption of the statute of an international criminal court in the
spring of 1996";

(j) Operative paragraph 7 would be renumbered paragraph 8.

19. The Committee also had before it a draft resolution entitled "United
Nations Conference to Establish an International Criminal Court" (A/C.6/49/L.6)
submitted by Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
Iceland, Italy, Jamaica, Malaysia, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, the Russian
Federation, Sweden and Trinidad and Tobago, later joined by the Bahamas, Chile,
Ireland, Panama, Portugal and Spain which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 45/41 of 28 November 1990 and 46/54 of
9 December 1991 in which it requested the International Law Commission to
consider the question of international criminal jurisdiction, including the
possibility of establishing an international criminal court or other
criminal mechanism,

"Recalling further its resolution 47/33 of 25 November 1992 in which
it charged the International Law Commission with the project of the
elaboration of a draft statute for an international criminal court,

"Recalling also its resolution 48/31 of 9 December 1993, in which it
requested the International Law Commission to continue its work as a matter
of priority with a view to elaborating a draft statute for such a court, if
possible at the Commission’s forty-sixth session,

"Noting that the International Law Commission, at its 2374th meeting,
adopted the text of such a statute and decided at its 2376th meeting to
recommend, in accordance with article 23 of its statute, that an
international conference of plenipotentiaries be convened to study the
draft statute and to conclude a convention on the establishment of an
international criminal court,

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 9

"Recalling that article VI of the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 3/ of 1948 refers to the possibility
of trial of individuals by such international penal tribunal as may have
jurisdiction with respect to those contracting parties which shall have
accepted its jurisdiction,

"Recalling also that the Security Council, in its resolution
827 (1993) of 25 May 1993, creating an ad hoc tribunal to prosecute persons
for grievous violations of international humanitarian law committed in the
territory of the former Yugoslavia, stated its belief that the
establishment of such a tribunal would contribute to ensuring that the
violations ended and the perpetrators were brought to justice,

"Convinced that international cooperation in the effective prosecution
and suppression of crimes of international concern will be assisted by the
creation of a permanent international criminal court,

"1. Decides to convene a United Nations conference at the highest
possible level of participation in 1996;

"2. Affirms that the Conference should conclude a Convention on the
Establishment of an International Criminal Court;

"3. Decides to establish a Preparatory Committee of the General
Assembly open to all States Members of the United Nations or members of the
specialized agencies, with the participation of observers in accordance
with the established practice of the General Assembly;

"4. Decides that the Preparatory Committee shall hold an
organizational session early in 1995 and substantive sessions in 1995 and
1996, all at United Nations Headquarters in New York, the timing and
duration of which shall be determined by the Preparatory Committee at its
organizational session;

"5. Decides that the Preparatory Committee, at its organizational
session, shall elect, with due regard to equitable geographic
representation, the Chairman and other members of its bureau;

"6. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to make
appropriate secretariat arrangements;

"7. Decides that the preparatory process and the Conference itself
should be funded through the regular budget of the United Nations and
within existing resources;

"8. Decides to establish a voluntary fund for the purpose of
supporting developing countries, in particular the least developed among
them, in participating fully and effectively in the Conference and in its
preparatory process, and invites Governments to contribute to the fund;

3/ Resolution 260 A (III), annex.

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 10

"9. Requests the Chairman of the Preparatory Committee to report to
the General Assembly at its fiftieth session on the progress of the work of
the Committee;

"10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth and
fifty-first sessions an item entitled ’United Nations Conference to
Establish an International Criminal Court’."

20. At the 40th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of France
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Establishment of an international
criminal court" (A/C.6/49/L.24).

21. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States, on behalf of
the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.5, and the representative of Canada,
on behalf of the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.6, announced that those
draft resolutions were being withdrawn in favour of draft resolution
A/C.6/49/L.24.

22. At the 41st meeting, on 29 November, it was announced that the amendments
submitted by Ghana (A/C.6/49/L.8) to draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.5 had been
withdrawn.

23. Also at the 41st meeting, the representative of Ghana introduced amendments
(A/C.6/49/L.26) to draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.24, by which:

(a) Operative paragraph 6 would be replaced with the following:

"6. Decides, on the basis of the conclusions of the ad hoc committee,
to convene a United Nations conference of plenipotentiaries not later
than 1997 to elaborate and adopt a statute of an international
criminal court";

(b) A new operative paragraph 7 would be inserted, reading:

"7. Further decides that the draft statute of an international
criminal court and commentaries by the International Law Commission, the
summary of the debate in the Sixth Committee at the forty-ninth session of
the General Assembly on the report of the Commission, the summary of the
debate in, and the report of, the ad hoc committee, as well as the comments
of States, shall be transmitted by the Secretary-General to the United
Nations conference of plenipotentiaries as background documentation for the
elaboration and adoption of the statute of an international criminal
court";

(c) A new operative paragraph 8 would be inserted, reading:

"8. Decides also to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session an item entitled Establishment of an international criminal court".

24. The representative of Malaysia made a statement in explanation of position
on the amendments submitted by Ghana (A/C.6/49/L.26) (see A/C.6/49/SR.41).

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 11

25. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the
conference servicing implications of draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.24.

26. Also at the 41st meeting, the representative of Norway, on behalf of the
Nordic countries, moved, within the terms of rule 116 of the rules of procedure,
that no action be taken on the amendments contained in document A/C.6/49/L.26.
The representatives of France and India spoke in favour of the motion. The
representatives of Ghana and Nigeria spoke against the motion.

27. The motion was then adopted by a recorded vote of 58 to 29, with 36
abstentions. The voting was as follows: 4/

In favour: Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Denmark, Fiji,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan,
Jordan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sweden, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America, Uzbekistan.

Against: Angola, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile,
Colombia, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mali, Namibia,
Niger, Nigeria, Paraguay, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South
Africa, Sudan, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia.

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cameroon,
Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania, Zimbabwe.

28. The representatives of Brazil and the Sudan made statements in explanation
of position on the motion (see A/C.6/49/SR.41).

29. In view of the adoption of the motion submitted by the representative of
Norway on behalf of the Nordic countries, the Committee took no action on the
amendments submitted by Ghana (A/C.6/49/L.26).

4/ The representative of Poland indicated that, had he not been prevented
from voting by the fact that he was acting as Chairman when the motion was put
to the vote, he would have voted in favour of the motion.

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 12

30. The Committee then adopted draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.24 without a vote
(see para. 32, draft resolution III).

31. Statements in explanation of position were made by the representatives of
Nigeria, Italy, New Zealand, Fiji, Australia and the United States of America
(see A/C.6/49/SR.41).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

32. The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Report of the International Law Commission on the work
of its forty-sixth session

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the International Law Commission on the
work of its forty-sixth session, 5/

Emphasizing the need for the progressive development of international law
and its codification in order to make it a more effective means of implementing
the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and
in the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations 6/ and to give increased importance to its role in relations
among States,

Recognizing the importance of referring legal and drafting questions to the
Sixth Committee, including topics that might be submitted to the International
Law Commission, and of enabling the Sixth Committee and the Commission further
to enhance their contribution to the progressive development of international
law and its codification,

Recalling the need to keep under review those topics of international law
which, given their new or renewed interest for the international community, may
be suitable for the progressive development and codification of international
law and therefore may be included in the future programme of work of the
International Law Commission,

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 10 (A/49/10).

6/ Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 13

Recognizing the role of the International Law Commission in the fulfilment
of the objectives of the United Nations Decade of International Law,

Considering that experience has demonstrated the usefulness of structuring
the debate on the report of the International Law Commission in the Sixth
Committee in such a manner that conditions are provided for concentrated
attention on each of the main topics dealt with in the report, and that this
process is facilitated when the Commission indicates specific issues on which
expressions of views by Governments are of particular interest for the
continuation of its work,

1. Takes note of the report of the International Law Commission on the
work of its forty-sixth session; 5/

2. Expresses its appreciation to the International Law Commission for the
work accomplished at that session, in particular for the completion of a draft
statute for an international criminal court and the adoption of final draft
articles on the law of the non-navigational uses of international watercourses;

3. Recommends that, taking into account the comments of Governments,
whether in writing or expressed orally in debates in the General Assembly, the
International Law Commission should continue its work on the topics in its
current programme;

4. Notes the intentions of the International Law Commission for the
programme of work for the remainder of the current term of office of its
members, 7/ and urges the Commission to resume at its forty-seventh session
the work on the draft Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind
and on State responsibility in such a manner that the second reading of the
draft Code and the first reading of the articles on State responsibility may be
completed before the end of the present term of office of the members of the
Commission;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to update the survey of State practice
relevant to international liability for injurious consequences arising out of
acts not prohibited by international law, prepared by the Secretariat in
1984, 8/ as a useful contribution to the ongoing work of the Commission on the
topic;

6. Endorses the intention of the International Law Commission to
undertake work on the topics "The law and practice relating to reservations to
treaties" and "State succession and its impact on nationality of natural and
legal persons", on the understanding that the final form to be given to the work
on these topics shall be decided after a preliminary study is presented to the
General Assembly, and, in connection with the latter topic, requests the

7/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 10 (A/49/10), para. 390.

8/ Yearbook of the International Law Commission, 1985, vol. II, part I,
(addendum).

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 14

Secretary-General to invite Governments to submit by 1 March 1995 relevant
materials including national legislation, decisions of national tribunals and
diplomatic and official correspondence relevant to the topic;

7. Expresses its appreciation for the efforts of the International Law
Commission to improve its procedures and methods of work;

8. Requests the International Law Commission:

(a) To consider thoroughly:

(i) The planning of its activities and programme for the term of office of
its members, bearing in mind the desirability of achieving as much
progress as possible in the preparation of draft articles on specific
topics;

(ii) Its methods of work in all their aspects, bearing in mind that the
staggering of the consideration of some topics might contribute,
inter alia, to a more effective consideration of its report in the
Sixth Committee;

(b) To continue to pay special attention to indicating in its annual
report, for each topic, those specific issues on which expressions of views by
Governments, either in the Sixth Committee or in written form, would be of
particular interest for the continuation of its work;

9. Takes note of the comments of the International Law Commission on the
question of the duration of its session, as presented in its report, 9/ and
expresses the view that the requirements of the work for the progressive
development of international law and its codification and the magnitude and
complexity of the subjects on the agenda of the Commission make it desirable
that the usual duration of its sessions be maintained;

10. Reaffirms its previous decisions concerning the role of the
Codification Division of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat and
those concerning the summary records and other documentation of the
International Law Commission;

11. Once again expresses the wish that seminars will continue to be held
in conjunction with the sessions of the International Law Commission and that an
increasing number of participants from developing countries will be given the
opportunity to attend those seminars, appeals to States that can do so to make
the voluntary contributions that are urgently needed for the holding of the
seminars, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the seminars, from
within existing resources, with adequate services, including interpretation, as
required;

9/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 10 (A/49/10), para. 402.

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 15

12. Requests the Secretary-General to forward to the International Law
Commission, for its attention, the records of the debate on the report of the
Commission at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, together with
such written statements as delegations may circulate in conjunction with their
oral statements, and to prepare and distribute a topical summary of the debate;

13. Recommends the continuation of efforts to improve the ways in which
the report of the International Law Commission is considered in the Sixth
Committee, with a view to providing effective guidance for the Commission in its
work;

14. Also recommends that the debate on the report of the International Law
Commission at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly commence on
23 October 1995.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Draft articles on the law of the non-navigational
uses of international watercourses

The General Assembly,

Having considered chapter III of the report of the International Law
Commission on the work of its forty-sixth session, 10/ which contains final
draft articles of and commentaries on the law of the non-navigational uses of
international watercourses,

Noting that the Commission decided to recommend the draft articles to the
General Assembly, and recommended the elaboration of a convention by the
Assembly or by an international conference of plenipotentiaries on the basis of
the draft articles,

Mindful of Article 13, paragraph 1 (a), of the Charter of the United
Nations, which provides that the General Assembly shall initiate studies and
make recommendations for the purpose of encouraging the progressive development
of international law and its codification,

Believing that successful codification and progressive development of the
rules of international law governing the non-navigational uses of international
watercourses would assist in promoting and implementing the purposes and
principles set forth in Articles 1 and 2 of the Charter,

Taking into account the existence of bilateral or multilateral agreements
governing the non-navigational uses of international watercourses, which should
not be affected by the adoption of a new international instrument unless the
parties to those agreements have otherwise decided,

10/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 10 (A/49/10).

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 16

Also taking into account the fact that, despite the existence of a number
of bilateral treaties and regional agreements, the use of international
watercourses is still based in part on general principles and rules of customary
law,

1. Expresses its appreciation to the International Law Commission for its
valuable work on the law of the non-navigational uses of international
watercourses, and to the successive special rapporteurs for their contribution
to that work;

2. Invites States to submit, not later than 1 July 1996, written comments
and observations on the draft articles adopted by the International Law
Commission;

3. Decides that, at the beginning of its fifty-first session, the Sixth
Committee shall convene as a Working Group of the Whole, open to States Members
of the United Nations or members of specialized agencies, for three weeks from
7 to 25 October 1996 to elaborate a framework convention on the law of the
non-navigational uses of international watercourses on the basis of the draft
articles adopted by the International Law Commission in the light of the written
comments and observations of States and views expressed in the debate at the
forty-ninth session of the General Assembly;

4. Also decides that the Working Group of the Whole shall, without
prejudice to the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, follow the methods
of work and procedures outlined in the annex to the present resolution, subject
to any modifications which it may deem appropriate;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to arrange for the presence of the
Special Rapporteur on the law of the non-navigational uses of international
watercourses as an expert during the debates on the topic at the fifty-first
session of the General Assembly, and to submit at that session all relevant
documentation;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session an item entitled "Convention on the law of the non-navigational uses of
international watercourses".

ANNEX

Methods of work and procedures

The draft articles prepared by the International Law Commission shall be
the basic proposal before the Working Group of the Whole.

The Working Group of the Whole shall start at once with a discussion of the
draft articles on an article-by-article basis, without prejudice to the
possibility of considering simultaneously closely connected articles, the
decisions on article 2, "Use of terms", being reserved for the concluding stages
of the work.

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 17

The Working Group of the Whole shall establish a Drafting Committee.

Once considered by the Working Group of the Whole, each article or group of
articles shall be referred to the Drafting Committee for examination in the
light of the discussion.

The Drafting Committee shall make recommendations to the Working Group of
the Whole in relation to each article or group of articles. It shall also
prepare and present to the Working Group of the Whole, for its approval, a draft
preamble and a set of final clauses.

The Working Group of the Whole shall endeavour to adopt all texts by
general agreement. Failing such an agreement within a reasonable period of
time, it will take its decisions in accordance with the rules of procedure of
the General Assembly.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Establishment of an international criminal court

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 47/33 of 25 November 1992, in which it requested
the International Law Commission to undertake the elaboration of a draft statute
for an international criminal court,

Recalling also its resolution 48/31 of 9 December 1993, in which it
requested the International Law Commission to continue its work on the question
of the draft statute for an international criminal court, with a view to
elaborating a draft statute for such a court, if possible at the Commission’s
forty-sixth session in 1994,

Noting that the International Law Commission adopted a draft statute for an
international criminal court at its forty-sixth session and decided to recommend
that an international conference of plenipotentiaries be convened to study the
draft statute and to conclude a convention on the establishment of an
international criminal court,

Expressing deep appreciation for the offer of the Government of Italy to
host a conference on the establishment of an international criminal court,

1. Welcomes the report of the International Law Commission on the work of
its forty-sixth session, 11/ including the recommendations contained therein;

2. Decides to establish an ad hoc committee open to all States Members of
the United Nations or members of specialized agencies to review the major
substantive and administrative issues arising out of the draft statute prepared

11/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 10 (A/49/10).

/...



A/49/738
English
Page 18

by the International Law Commission and, in the light of that review, to
consider arrangements for the convening of an international conference of
plenipotentiaries;

3. Also decides that the ad hoc committee will meet from 3 to
13 April 1995 and, if it so decides, from 14 to 25 August 1995, and submit its
report to the General Assembly at the beginning of its fiftieth session, and
requests the Secretary-General to provide the ad hoc committee with the
necessary facilities for the performance of its work;

4. Invites States to submit to the Secretary-General, before
15 March 1995, written comments on the draft statute for an international
criminal court, and requests the Secretary-General to invite such comments from
relevant international organs;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the ad hoc committee a
preliminary report with provisional estimates of the staffing, structure and
costs of the establishment and operation of an international criminal court;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
an item entitled "Establishment of an international criminal court", in order to
study the report of the ad hoc committee and the written comments submitted by
States and to decide on the convening of an international conference of
plenipotentiaries to conclude a convention on the establishment of an
international criminal court, including on the timing and duration of the
conference.

-----


