





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/692
1 December 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 55

THE ROLE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE CONTEXT
OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, DISARMAMENT AND OTHER

RELATED FIELDS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Peter GOOSEN (South Africa)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields" was included in
the provisional agenda of the forty-ninth session in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 48/67 of 16 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October 1994, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely items 53 to 66, 68 to 72 and 153. The deliberations on those
items took place at the 3rd to 10th meetings, from 17 to 24 October (see
A/C.1/49/PV.3-10). Structured discussion of specific subjects on the adopted
thematic approach took place from 25 to 27 and on 31 October and 1 November.
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 12th to
16th meetings, on 3, 4, 7 and 9 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.12-16). Action on
draft resolutions on those items was taken at the 19th to 25th meetings, from 14
to 18 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.19-25).

4. In connection with item 55, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

94-47680 (E) 061294 /...



A/49/692
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Disarmament Commission; 1/

(b) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt to the Secretary-General transmitting the documents of the Eleventh
Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Cairo
from 31 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and Corr.1).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/49/L.29

5. On 2 November, Australia, Austria, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,
Chile, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, Germany, Greece, Honduras,
Hungary, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Poland, the Republic of
Korea, Romania, South Africa and Sweden submitted a draft resolution entitled
"The role of science and technology in the context of international security,
disarmament and other related fields" (A/C.1/49/L.29), which was later also
sponsored by the Czech Republic, Nepal, the Republic of Moldova and Uruguay.
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Brazil at the
13th meeting, on 4 November.

6. At its 20th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee voted on draft
resolution A/C.1/49/L.29 as follows:

(a) The seventh preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of
132 to 2, with 9 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/49/42).

2/ Subsequently, the delegations of Djibouti and Zambia indicated that
they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/692
English
Page 3

Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: India, Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Abstaining: Algeria, Burkina Faso, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, France, Mexico, Panama, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

(b) The eighth preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of 129
to 2, with 10 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zimbabwe.

Against: India, Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Abstaining: Algeria, Burkina Faso, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, France, Israel, Mexico, Panama, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/...



A/49/692
English
Page 4

(c) Operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 128 to 2, with
13 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 2/, 3/

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zimbabwe.

Against: India, Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Abstaining: Algeria, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Egypt, France, Israel, Malaysia, Mexico,
Panama, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

(d) Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.29 as a whole was adopted by a recorded
vote of 140 to none, with 6 abstentions (see para. 7). The voting was as
follows: 2/

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece,

3/ Brazil indicated that it had actually voted in favour of operative
paragraph 3 but that the machine had shown "abstention".

/...



A/49/692
English
Page 5

Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, France, India, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The role of science and technology in the context
of international security, disarmament and other

related fields

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 47/44 of 9 December 1992 and 48/67 of
16 December 1993,

Taking note of the report of the Disarmament Commission on its 1994
substantive session, 4/ in particular the work of Working Group II on agenda
item 55, entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields", 5/

4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/49/42).

5/ Ibid., para. 22.

/...



A/49/692
English
Page 6

Recognizing that science and technology per se are deemed to be neutral,
that scientific and technological developments can have both civilian and
military applications and that progress in science and technology for civilian
applications needs to be maintained and encouraged,

Mindful that the application of science and technology relevant to weapons
of mass destruction, as well as to conventional weapons, should not lead to
excessive and destabilizing accumulation of arms through quantitative build-up
or qualitative improvements of arms which threaten international peace and
security,

Recognizing that progress in the application of science and technology
contributes substantially to the implementation of arms control and disarmament
agreements in the fields of, inter alia, weapons disposal, military conversion
and verification,

Cognizant that international transfers of high-technology products,
services and know-how for peaceful purposes are important for the economic and
social development of States,

Recalling that norms and guidelines for the transfer of high technology
with military applications should take into account legitimate requirements for
the maintenance of international peace and security, while ensuring that they do
not deny access to high-technology products, services and know-how for peaceful
purposes,

Mindful that cooperation in this field among supplier and recipient States
should be enhanced by a firm common commitment to preventing transfers of high
technology with military applications for exclusively peaceful purposes from
being diverted to non-peaceful uses, and that such cooperation should be based
on clearly defined and balanced rights and obligations, appropriate measures of
transparency and verification, equity and fairness and predictability of
incentives and benefits,

1. Affirms that scientific and technological achievements should be used
for the benefit of all mankind to promote the sustainable economic and social
development of all States and to safeguard international security, and that
international cooperation in the use of science and technology through the
transfer and exchange of technological know-how for peaceful purposes should be
promoted;

2. Invites Member States to undertake additional efforts to apply science
and technology for disarmament-related purposes and to make disarmament-related
technologies available to interested States;

3. Recommends that Member States adopt and implement national measures,
consistent with international law, regulating the transfer of high technology
with military applications in order to seek to ensure that such transfers do not
undermine international peace and security and that access is not denied to
high-technology products, services and know-how for peaceful purposes;

/...



A/49/692
English
Page 7

4. Invites Member States to widen multilateral dialogue, seeking
universally acceptable norms and guidelines that would regulate international
transfers of high technology with military applications;

5. Encourages the United Nations to contribute, within existing mandates,
to promoting the application of science and technology for peaceful purposes;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields".

-----


