





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/700
1 December 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 63

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDING DOCUMENT OF
THE TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Peter GOOSEN (South Africa)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly:

"(a) Regional confidence-building measures;

"(b) Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons;

"(c) United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services
programme;

"(d) United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;

"(e) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa,
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and
the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament
and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean"

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-ninth session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 48/76 A to E of 16 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

94-47686 (E) 061294 /...



A/49/700
English
Page 2

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October 1994, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 53 to 66, 68 to 72 and 153. The deliberations on those
items took place at the 3rd to 10th meetings, from 17 to 24 October 1994 (see
A/C.1/49/PV.3-10). Structured discussions of specific subjects on the adopted
thematic approach took place from 25 to 27 and on 31 October and 1 November.
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 12th to
16th meetings, on 3, 4, 7 and 9 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.12-16). Action on
draft resolutions on those items was taken at the 19th to 25th meetings, from 12
to 18 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.19-25)

4. In connection with item 63, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme (A/49/371);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace
and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean
(A/49/389);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations disarmament
fellowship, training and advisory services programme (A/49/504);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on regional confidence-building
measures (A/49/546);

(f) Letter dated 21 February 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/80-S/1994/204);

(g) Letter dated 21 April 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/132);

(h) Letter dated 10 May 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/155-S/1994/556);

(i) Letter dated 24 May 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/165-S/1994/616);

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27).

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 3

(j) Letter dated 5 September 1994 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Australia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General transmitting the communiqué of the Twenty-fifth South Pacific Forum,
held at Brisbane, Australia, from 31 July to 2 August 1994 (A/49/381);

(k) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting the texts of the documents
adopted by the Eleventh Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Cairo from 31 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and
Corr.1);

(l) Letter dated 17 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the communiqué of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-ninth session
of the General Assembly, held at United Nations Headquarters on 5 October 1994
(A/49/532-S/1994/1179).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.8

5. On 31 October, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Mexico, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Sri Lanka, Ukraine and Venezuela
submitted a draft resolution entitled "United Nations Disarmament Information
Programme" (A/C.1/49/L.8), which was later also sponsored by Nepal. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 14th meeting,
on 7 November.

6. At its 20th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.8 without a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution A).

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.12

7. On 31 October, Algeria, Australia, Benin, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech
Republic, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Mali, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, the Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, the Republic of Korea,
Romania, Sweden, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela submitted a draft
resolution entitled "United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and
advisory services programme (A/C.1/49/L.12), which was later also sponsored by
Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, Indonesia,
Jamaica, Kenya, Mongolia, the Republic of Moldova, South Africa, Thailand, the
United Republic of Tanzania and Zimbabwe. The draft resolution was introduced
by the representative of Nigeria at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

8. At its 20th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.12 without a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution B).

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 4

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.20 and Rev.1

9. On 1 November, Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, the Central African Republic,
Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe and
Zaire submitted a draft resolution entitled "Regional confidence-building
measures" (A/C.1/49/L.20). The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Cameroon at the 14th meeting, on 7 November.

10. On 10 November, the sponsors, joined by Kenya, submitted a revised draft
resolution (A/C.1/49/L.20/Rev.1), which contained the following change: the
original operative paragraph 7, which read:

"7. Requests the Secretary-General and interested bodies and third
States to assist in the training and preparation of units specializing in
peace-keeping in the member countries of the Committee"

was revised to read:

"7. Requests Member States and non-governmental organizations to
assist and to promote the training and preparation of units specializing in
peace operations in the member countries of the Committee".

11. At the 20th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Cameroon orally
revised the text of operative paragraph 6 by inserting the words "of the
Economic Community of Central African States" after the phrase "States members".

12. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.20/Rev.1 as orally revised without a vote (see para. 17, draft
resolution C).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.26

13. On 2 November, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica,
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, the Gambia, on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are members of the African Group of States, Honduras, Jamaica, the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Venezuela and Viet Nam submitted a
draft resolution entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace,
Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean" (A/C.1/49/L.26),
which was later also sponsored by Belize, Brunei Darussalam, Guatemala, Saint
Lucia, South Africa, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago and
Uruguay. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Togo at
the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

14. At its 21st meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.26 without a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution D).

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 5

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.31

15. On 2 November, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Colombia, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mexico,
Myanmar, the Sudan and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons" (A/C.1/49/L.31),
which was later also sponsored by Costa Rica and Haiti. The draft resolution
was introduced by the representative of India at the 14th meeting, on
7 November.

16. At its 22nd meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.31 by a recorded vote of 98 to 23, with 31 abstentions (see para. 17,
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon
Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia,
Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus,
Bulgaria, Estonia, Fiji, Georgia, Ireland, Israel, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), New
Zealand, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian
Federation, Samoa, Slovenia, Sweden, Tajikistan, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine.

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 6

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

17. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly

A

United Nations Disarmament Information Programme

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision taken in 1982 at its twelfth special session, the
second special session devoted to disarmament, by which the World Disarmament
Campaign was launched, 2/

Bearing in mind its various resolutions on the subject, including
resolution 47/53 D of 9 December 1992 in which it decided, inter alia, that the
World Disarmament Campaign should be known thereafter as the "United Nations
Disarmament Information Programme" and the World Disarmament Campaign Voluntary
Trust Fund as the "Voluntary Trust Fund for the United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme",

Having examined the reports of the Secretary-General of 9 September 1994 on
the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme, 3/ and of
2 September 1994 on the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters 4/ as it relates
to the implementation of the Disarmament Information Programme, as well as the
Final Act of the Twelfth United Nations Pledging Conference for the Programme,
held on 28 October 1994, 5/

Noting with appreciation the contributions that Member States have already
made to the Programme,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General of 9 September 1994 on
the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme; 3/

2. Commends the Secretary-General for his efforts to make effective use
of the resources available to him in disseminating as widely as possible
information on arms limitation and disarmament to elected officials, the media,

2/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, paras. 110 and 111.

3/ A/49/371.

4/ A/49/360.

5/ A/CONF.174/L.2.

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 7

non-governmental organizations, educational communities and research institutes,
and in carrying out an active seminar and conference programme;

3. Notes with appreciation the contributions to the efforts of the
Programme by the United Nations information centres and the regional centres for
disarmament;

4. Recommends that the Programme should further focus its efforts:

(a) To inform, to educate and to generate public understanding of the
importance of and support for multilateral action, including action by the
United Nations and the Conference on Disarmament, in the field of arms
limitation and disarmament, in a factual, balanced and objective manner;

(b) To facilitate unimpeded access to and an exchange of information on
ideas between the public sector and public interest groups and organizations,
and to provide an independent source of balanced and factual information that
takes into account a range of views to help further an informed debate on arms
limitation, disarmament and security;

(c) To organize meetings to facilitate exchanges of views and information
between governmental and non-governmental sectors and between governmental and
other experts in order to facilitate the search for common ground;

5. Invites all Member States to contribute to the Voluntary Trust Fund
for the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;

6. Commends the Secretary-General for supporting the efforts of
universities, other academic institutions and non-governmental organizations
active in the educational field in widening the worldwide availability of
disarmament education, and invites him to continue to support and cooperate,
without cost to the regular budget of the United Nations, with educational
institutions and non-governmental organizations engaged in such efforts;

7. Decides that at its fiftieth session there should be a thirteenth
United Nations Pledging Conference for the United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme, and expresses the hope that on that occasion all those
Member States which have not yet announced any voluntary contributions will do
so, bearing in mind the objectives of the Third Disarmament Decade 6/ and the
need to ensure its success;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session a report covering both the implementation of the
activities of the Programme by the United Nations system during the previous two
years and the activities of the Programme contemplated by the system for the
following two years;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "United Nations Disarmament Information Programme".

6/ See resolution 45/62 A, annex.

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 8

B

United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and
advisory services programme

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on United Nations
disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services programme, 7/

Recalling its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 8/ the first special
session devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowships on
disarmament, as well as its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, 9/ the second
special session devoted to disarmament, in which it decided, inter alia, to
continue the programme,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme has already trained an
appreciable number of public officials selected from geographical regions
represented in the United Nations system, most of whom are now in positions of
responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs in their respective countries
or Governments,

Recalling its resolutions 37/100 G of 13 December 1982, 38/73 C of
15 December 1983, 39/63 B of 12 December 1984, 40/151 H of 16 December 1985,
41/60 H of 3 December 1986, 42/39 I of 30 November 1987, 43/76 F of
7 December 1988, 44/117 E of 15 December 1989, 45/59 A of 4 December 1990,
46/37 E of 6 December 1991, 47/53 A of 9 December 1992 and 48/76 C of
16 December 1993,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme, as designed, has enabled an
increased number of public officials, particularly from the developing
countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of disarmament,

Believing that the forms of assistance available to Member States,
particularly to developing countries, under the programme will enhance the
capabilities of their officials to follow ongoing deliberations and negotiations
on disarmament, both bilateral and multilateral,

1. Reaffirms its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly and the report
of the Secretary-General 10/ approved by resolution 33/71 E of
14 December 1978;

7/ A/49/504.

8/ Resolution S-10/2.

9/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32.

10/ A/33/305.



A/49/700
English
Page 9

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Finland, France,
Germany, Japan and Sweden for inviting the 1994 fellows to study selected
activities in the field of disarmament, thereby contributing to the fulfilment
of the overall objectives of the programme;

3. Notes with satisfaction that, within the framework of the programme,
the Centre for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat organizes regional
disarmament workshops for Africa, Asia and the Pacific, and Latin America and
the Caribbean;

4. Commends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the
programme has continued to be carried out;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue the implementation of the
Geneva-based programme within existing resources and to report thereon to the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
an item entitled "United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory
services".

C

Regional confidence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

Bearing in mind the guidelines for general and complete disarmament adopted
at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to disarmament,

Recalling also its resolutions 43/78 H and 43/85 of 7 December 1988, 44/21
of 15 November 1989, 45/58 M of 4 December 1990, 46/37 B of 6 December 1991,
47/53 F of 15 December 1992 and 48/76 A of 16 December 1993,

Considering the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building
measures taken at the initiative and with the participation of all States
concerned and taking into account the specific characteristics of each region,
in that they can contribute to regional disarmament and to international
security, in accordance with the principles of the Charter,

Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional
disarmament, can be devoted to economic and social development and to the
protection of the environment for the benefit of all peoples, in particular
those of the developing countries,

Bearing in mind the establishment by the Secretary-General on 28 May 1992
of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 10

purpose of which is to encourage arms limitation, disarmament, non-proliferation
and development in the subregion,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on regional
confidence-building measures, 11/ which deals chiefly with the meetings of
the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, held at
Yaoundé in April and September 1994;

2. Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-
building measures at the regional and subregional levels in order to ease
regional tensions and to further disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful
settlement of disputes in Central Africa;

3. Also reaffirms its support for the programme of work of the Standing
Advisory Committee adopted at the organizational meeting of the Committee held
at Yaoundé from 27 to 31 July 1992;

4. Notes the readiness of the States members of the Economic Community of
Central African States to reduce the military forces, equipment and budgets in
the subregion and to continue reviewing the studies carried out on the subject
with a view to reaching agreements to that end;

5. Welcomes with satisfaction the initialling of the Non-Aggression Pact
between the States members of the Economic Community of Central African States,
which is likely to contribute to the prevention of conflicts and to confidence-
building in the subregion, and encourages those States to sign the Pact as soon
as possible;

6. Also welcomes with satisfaction the decision taken by the States
members of the Economic Community of Central African States to participate in
peace-keeping operations of the United Nations and the Organization of African
Unity and, to that end, to establish units specializing in peace-keeping
operations within their respective armed forces;

7. Requests Member States and non-governmental organizations to assist
and to promote the training and preparation of units specializing in peace
operations in the member countries of the Committee;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide assistance to
the Central African States in implementing the programme of work of the Standing
Advisory Committee;

9. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its fiftieth session a report on the implementation of the present
resolution;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Regional confidence-building measures".

11/ A/49/546.



A/49/700
English
Page 11

D

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development

in Latin America and the Caribbean

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41/60 D of
3 December 1986, 42/39 J of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 D of 7 December 1988 on
the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, 41/60 J
of 3 December 1986, 42/39 K of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 H of 7 December 1988
on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in
Latin America and the Caribbean, 42/39 D of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 G of
7 December 1988 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia, and 44/117 F of 15 December 1989, 45/59 E of 4 December 1990 and
46/37 F of 9 December 1991 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa, the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean,

Reaffirming its resolutions 46/36 F of 6 December 1991 and 47/52 G of
9 December 1992 on regional disarmament, including confidence-building measures,

Recalling its resolution 48/76 E of 16 December 1993 on the regional
disarmament centres,

Mindful of the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the
United Nations stipulating that a function of the General Assembly is to
consider the general principles of cooperation in the maintenance of
international peace and security, including the principles governing disarmament
and arms limitation,

Bearing in mind that the changed international environment has created new
opportunities for the pursuit of disarmament, as well as posed new challenges,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the activities of the
regional centres, 12/

Convinced that the initiatives and activities mutually agreed upon by
Member States of the respective regions aimed at fostering mutual confidence and
security, as well as the implementation and coordination of regional activities
under the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme, would encourage and
facilitate the development of effective measures of confidence-building, arms
limitation and disarmament in these regions,

Welcoming the programme of activities carried out by the regional centres,
which have contributed substantially to understanding and cooperation among the

12/ A/49/389.



A/49/700
English
Page 12

States in each particular region and have thereby strengthened the role assigned
to each regional centre in the areas of peace, disarmament and development,

Recognizing the need to provide the centres with financial viability and
stability so as to facilitate the effective planning and implementation of their
respective programmes of activities,

Expressing its gratitude to the Member States and international
governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations that have
contributed to the trust funds of the three regional centres,

1. Commends the activities being carried out by the regional centres in
identifying and broadening the understanding of pressing disarmament and
security issues and exploring optimum solutions under given specific conditions
prevailing in each region, in accordance with their mandates;

2. Encourages the regional centres to continue intensifying their efforts
in promoting cooperation with subregional and regional organizations and among
the States in their respective regions to facilitate the development of
effective measures of confidence-building, arms limitation and disarmament, with
a view to strengthening peace and security;

3. Also encourages further use of the potential of the regional centres
to maintain the increased interest in and momentum for revitalization of the
Organization to meet the challenges of a new phase of international relations in
order to fulfil the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
related to peace, disarmament and development, taking into account the
guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to disarmament within the
context of global security as adopted by the Disarmament Commission at its 1993
substantive session; 13/

4. Appeals once again to Member States, as well as to international
governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations, to make
voluntary contributions in order to strengthen the programmes of activities of
the regional centres and their effective implementation;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide all necessary
support to the regional centres in carrying out their programmes of activities;

6. Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the directors of
the regional centres are locally based in order to revitalize the activities of
the centres;

7. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session on the implementation of resolution 46/37 F and
of the present resolution;

13/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42), annex II.

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 13

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the
Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and
Development in Latin America and the Caribbean".

E

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly,

Convinced that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious threat to
the survival of mankind,

Convinced also that a multilateral agreement prohibiting the use or threat
of use of nuclear weapons would strengthen international security and contribute
to the climate for negotiations leading to the ultimate elimination of nuclear
weapons,

Welcoming the Treaty between the Russian Federation and the United States
of America on Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Weapons,
signed at Moscow on 3 January 1993, aimed at reducing the strategic arsenals to
an aggregate level not to exceed 3,500 deployed strategic warheads for each side
no later than the year 2003,

Conscious that the recent steps taken by the Russian Federation and the
United States of America towards a reduction of their nuclear weapons and the
improvement in the international climate can contribute towards the goal of
complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 8/ it is stated that all States should actively
participate in efforts to bring about conditions in international relations
among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of nations in international
affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared in its
resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 B of 14 December 1978, 34/83 G
of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 I of
9 December 1981,

Stressing that an international convention would be a step towards the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete
disarmament under strict and effective international control,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its 1994
session, was unable to undertake negotiations on this subject,

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 14

1. Reiterates its request to the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiations, as a matter of priority, in order to reach agreement on an
international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
under any circumstances, taking as a possible basis the draft Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolution;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly on the results of those negotiations.

ANNEX

Draft Convention on the Prohibition of
the Use of Nuclear Weapons

The States Parties to this Convention,

Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the
existence of nuclear weapons,

Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

Convinced also that this Convention would be a step towards the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament under
strict and effective international control,

Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Have agreed as follows:

Article 1

The States Parties to this Convention solemnly undertake not to use or
threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

Article 2

The Convention shall be of unlimited duration.

Article 3

1. This Convention shall be open to all States for signature. Any State
that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in accordance with
paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any time.

2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory States.
Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations.

/...



A/49/700
English
Page 15

3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deposit of instruments
of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the Governments of the
five nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article.

4. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of the Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

5. The depositary shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding States
of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument of
ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of this
Convention, as well as of the receipt of other notices.

6. This Convention shall be registered by the depositary in accordance
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

Article 4

This Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and
Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, who shall send duly certified copies thereof to
the Government of the signatory and acceding States.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Convention, opened for signature at
______________ on the __________ day of the ____________ one thousand nine
hundred and ___________.

-----


