





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/623
11 November 1994
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 81

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 e OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Dieudonné NDIAYE (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-ninth session the item entitled "Information from Non-Self-Governing
Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations"
and to allocate it to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth
Committee).

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 5 October 1994, the Fourth Committee decided to hold
a general debate covering agenda items 18, 81, 82, 83 and 12, and 84, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would
be considered separately. The general debate took place at the 5th and 6th
meetings, on 12 and 13 October.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 81 at its 2nd, 5th, 6th and 13th
meetings, on 5, 12, 13 and 28 October (see A/C.4/49/SR.2, 5, 6 and 13).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

4. At the 2nd meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he
gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1994
and drew attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee relating to

94-44388 (E) 211194 /...



A/49/623
English
Page 2

item 81 (A/49/23 (Part IV)) 1/ containing, inter alia, the related draft
resolution submitted by the Special Committee for the consideration of the
Fourth Committee.

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
relating to the item (A/49/384).

6. At its 13th meeting, on 28 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 9 of chapter VII of the report of the Special
Committee (A/49/23 (Part IV)) by a recorded vote of 136 to none, with 3
abstentions (see para. 7). 2/ The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against. None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

1/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-
ninth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/49/23).

2/ The representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the United States of America made statements in explanation
of vote.

/...



A/49/623
English
Page 3

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolution:

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations 3/ and the action taken by the Special Committee
in respect of that information,

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General on the item, 4/

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which the
Assembly requested the Special Committee to study the information transmitted to
the Secretary-General in accordance with Article 73 e of the Charter and to take
such information fully into account in examining the situation with regard to
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Recalling also its resolution of 48/45 of 10 December 1993, in which the
Assembly requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Stressing the importance of timely transmission by the administering Powers
of adequate information under Article 73 e of the Charter, in particular in
relation to the preparation by the Secretariat of the working papers on the
Territories concerned,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations; 3/

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of self-

3/ A/49/23 (Part IV), chap. VII.

4/ A/49/384.

/...



A/49/623
English
Page 4

government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 e of the
Charter with respect to that Territory;

3. Requests the administering Powers concerned to transmit or continue to
transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 e of
the Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and
constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum
period of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in
those Territories;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the
preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concerned;

5. Requests the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance
with established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly at its
fiftieth session.

-----


