





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/699
7 December 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 62

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Peter GOOSEN (South Africa)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"General and complete disarmament:

"(a) Notification of nuclear tests;

"(b) Relationship between disarmament and development;

"(c) Non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of vehicles for
their delivery in all its aspects;

"(d) Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes;

"(e) Transparency in armaments;

"(f) International illicit arms traffic;

"(g) Regional disarmament;

"(h) Measures to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional arms;

"(i) Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels;

"(j) Prohibition of the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons
or other nuclear explosive devices."

94-48521 (E) 121294 /...



A/49/699
English
Page 2

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-ninth session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 42/38 C of 30 November 1987, 46/36 L of
9 December 1991, 47/52 L of 15 December 1992 and 48/75 A to L of
16 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October 1994, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 53 to 66, 68 to 72 and 153. The deliberations on those
items took place at the 3rd to 10th meetings, from 17 to 24 October (see
A/C.1/49/PV.3-10). Structured discussions of specific subjects on the adopted
thematic approach took place from 25 to 27 and on 31 October and 1 November.
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 12th to
16th meetings, on 3, 4, 7 and 9 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.12-16). Action on
draft resolutions on those items took place at the 19th to 25th meetings, from
14 to 18 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.19-25).

4. In connection with item 62, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; 2/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on non-proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction and of vehicles for their delivery in all its aspects
(A/INF/49/3);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on regional disarmament (A/49/202 and
Add.1);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on a moratorium on the export of
anti-personnel land-mines (A/49/275 and Add.1);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General: report on the continuing operation
of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and its further development
(A/49/316);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on measures to curb the illicit
transfer and use of conventional arms (A/49/343);

(h) Report of the Secretary-General on transparency in armaments - United
Nations Register of Conventional Arms (A/49/352 and Corr.1 and Add.1 and 2);

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27).

2/ Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/49/42).

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 3

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on the relationship between
disarmament and development (A/49/476);

(j) Note by the Secretary-General on notification of nuclear tests
(A/49/68 and Add.1);

(k) Note by the Secretary-General on notification of nuclear tests
(A/49/420);

(l) Note by the Secretary-General on prohibition of the production of
fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices
(A/49/97-S/1994/322);

(m) Letter dated 24 January 1994 from the representatives of the Russian
Federation, Ukraine and the United States of America to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/49/66-S/1994/91);

(n) Letter dated 3 February 1994 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/69-S/1994/117);

(o) Letter dated 4 February 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Kazakhstan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/49/73);

(p) Letter dated 21 February 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/80-S/1994/204);

(q) Letter dated 31 March 1994 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Greece to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/117-S/1994/395);

(r) Letter dated 21 April 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/132);

(s) Letter dated 10 May 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/155-S/1994/556);

(t) Letter dated 17 May 1994 from the representatives of Ukraine and the
United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/162-S/1994/596);

(u) Letter dated 23 May 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Argentina to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/49/166);

(v) Letter dated 24 May 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/165-S/1994/616);

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 4

(w) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt to the Secretary-General (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and Corr.1);

(x) Letter dated 8 July 1994 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Spain to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/222);

(y) Letter dated 12 July 1994 from the Permanent Representative of Italy
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/49/228-S/1994/827);

(z) Letter dated 8 August 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Germany to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/49/302);

(aa) Letter dated 8 August 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Germany to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/49/307-S/1994/958);

(bb) Letter dated 5 September 1994 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Australia to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/49/381);

(cc) Letter dated 17 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/49/532-S/1994/1179).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.3

5. On 28 October, the Gambia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the African Group of States, submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes
(A/C.1/49/L.3), which was later also sponsored by Haiti. The draft resolution
was introduced by the representative of the Gambia at the 20th meeting, on
15 November.

6. At its 19th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.3 without a vote (see para. 60, draft resolution A).

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.4

7. On 28 October, Nigeria submitted a draft resolution entitled "Review of the
Declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade", which was later also
sponsored by Benin. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative
of Nigeria at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 5

8. At its 20th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.4 by a recorded vote of 111 to 4, with 27 abstentions (see para. 60,
draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: France, Marshall Islands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Russian Federation, Samoa, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine.

C. Draft decision A/C.1/49/L.6

9. On 31 October, Colombia submitted a draft decision entitled "International
illicit arms traffic" (A/C.1/49/L.6), which read as follows:

"The General Assembly, recalling its resolutions 48/75 F of
16 December 1993, entitled ’International arms transfers’, adopted without
a vote, and 48/77 A of 16 December 1993, entitled ’Report of the
Disarmament Commission’, adopted without a vote, as well as the report of
the Disarmament Commission contained in the Official Records of the General
Assembly, forty-ninth session, Supplement No. 42 (A/49/42), decides to

3/ Subsequently, the delegation of Zambia indicated that, had it been
present, it would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 6

include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session the item entitled
’International illicit arms traffic’."

10. At the 19th meeting, on 14 November, the representative of Colombia
withdrew draft decision A/C.1/49/L.6.

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.18 and Rev.1

11. On 2 November, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belarus, Belgium,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Costa
Rica, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Namibia, Nepal, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain,
Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Transparency in armaments"
(A/C.1/49/L.18), which was later also sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Cameroon,
Haiti, the Philippines, South Africa and Turkmenistan. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of the Netherlands at the 13th meeting, on
4 November.

12. On 3 November, Algeria, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico,
Myanmar, Nigeria and Sri Lanka submitted amendments (A/C.1/49/L.45) to draft
resolution A/C.1/49/L.18, by which:

(a) At the end of operative paragraph 4 (a), the following words would be
added: "including its expansion to cover weapons of mass destruction";

(b) Operative paragraph 4 (b), which read:

"(b) Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group of
governmental experts to be convened in 1996 on the basis of equitable
geographical representation, to prepare a report on the continuing
operation of the Register and its further development, taking into account
the work of the Conference on Disarmament and the views expressed by Member
States, for submission to the General Assembly with a view to a decision at
its fifty-first session";

would be replaced by:

"(b) Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report on the
continuing operation of the Register and its further development, taking
into account the views expressed by Member States, for submission to the
General Assembly with a view to a decision at its fifty-third session";

(c) Operative paragraph 6 would be deleted and the remaining paragraphs
renumbered accordingly.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 7

13. The amendments contained in document A/C.1/49/L.45 were introduced by the
representative of Mexico at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

14. On 15 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.18/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 4 (a), which read:

"(a) Requests Member States to provide the Secretary-General with
their views on the continuing operation of the Register and its further
development";

was revised to read:

"(a) Requests Member States to provide the Secretary-General with
their views on the continuing operation of the Register and its further
development and on transparency measures related to weapons of mass
destruction";

(b) Operative paragraph 4 (b), was revised to read:

"(b) Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group of
governmental experts to be convened in 1997, on the basis of equitable
geographical representation, to prepare a report on the continuing
operation of the Register and its further development, taking into account
work of the Conference on Disarmament, the views expressed by Member States
and the 1994 report of the Secretary-General on the continuing operation of
the Register and its further development, with a view to a decision at its
fifty-second session";

(c) Operative paragraph 6, which read:

"Encourages the Conference on Disarmament to continue its work
undertaken in the field of transparency in armaments",

was revised to read:

"Invites the Conference on Disarmament to consider continuing its work
undertaken in the field of transparency in armaments".

15. At the 25th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Mexico made a
statement on behalf of the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.45 that they
intended not to press the draft resolution to vote.

16. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.18/Rev.1 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 4 (b) was adopted by a recorded vote of 114 to 1,
with 22 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 8

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Monaco, Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Abstaining: Algeria, Angola, China, Colombia, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ghana, India,
Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico,
Myanmar, Nigeria, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland.

(b) Operative paragraph 6 was adopted by a recorded vote of 117 to 4, with
15 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway,
Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 9

Islands, South Africa, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Algeria, Cuba, Indonesia, Mexico.

Abstaining: Angola, China, Colombia, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Ecuador, El Salvador, India, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Myanmar, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Sri Lanka, Sudan.

(c) Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.18/Rev.1 as a whole was adopted by a
recorded vote of 126 to none, with 17 abstentions (see para. 60, draft
resolution C. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic
of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Algeria, Angola, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Egypt, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Myanmar, Saudi
Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 10

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.19

17. On 1 November, Afghanistan, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Eritrea, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Maldives, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Sierra Leone, Slovenia, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of
America, Vanuatu and Yemen submitted a draft resolution entitled "Moratorium on
the export of anti-personnel land-mines" (A/C.1/49/L.19), which was later also
sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Cameroon, Chad, Ethiopia,
Georgia, Guinea, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, India, Malaysia, Mongolia,
Namibia and the Niger. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of the United States of America at the 12th meeting, on
3 November.

18. At its 19th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.19 without a vote (see para. 60, draft resolution D).

F. Draft decision A/C.1/49/L.24

19. On 2 November, Mexico submitted a draft decision entitled
"Non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of vehicles for their
delivery in all its aspects" (A/C.1/49/L.24). The draft decision was introduced
by the representative of Mexico at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

20. At its 20th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.1/49/L.24 by a recorded vote of 98 to 1, with 42 abstentions (see para. 61,
draft decision). The voting was as follows: 4/

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia,
Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,

4/ Subsequently, the delegations of Djibouti and Zambia indicated that,
had they been present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 11

Republic of Korea, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Andorra, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

G. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.25 and Rev.1

21. On 2 November, Brazil, Colombia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico,
Nigeria and Zimbabwe submitted a draft resolution entitled "Step-by-step
reduction of the nuclear threat" (A/C.1/49/L.25), which was later also sponsored
by Ecuador and the United Republic of Tanzania. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 14th meeting, on 7 November.

22. On 16 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.25/Rev.1), which was later also sponsored by Algeria. The draft
resolution contained the following changes:

(a) In operative paragraph 3 (a), the words "operative paragraph 1" were
replaced by the words "paragraph 1 of the present resolution";

(b) In operative paragraph 3 (b), the word "operative" was deleted;

(c) Operative paragraph 4, which read:

"4. Requests that the Conference on Disarmament include in its 1995
report to the General Assembly a section on efforts undertaken in
accordance with the above recommendation."

was revised to read:

"4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to include in its 1995
report to the General Assembly a section on efforts undertaken in
accordance with the recommendation set out in paragraph 3";

(d) An additional paragraph was added reading as follows:

"5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session an item entitled ’Step-by-step reduction of the nuclear threat’".

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 12

23. At its 24th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.25/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 91 to 24, with 30 abstentions (see
para. 60, draft resolution E). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino,
Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bulgaria, Canada, Estonia,
Georgia, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), New Zealand, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, Slovenia, Swaziland,
Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine.

H. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.27

24. On 2 November, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Code of Conduct for the international transfers of
conventional weapons", which was later also sponsored by Malta, the Republic of
Moldova, Slovakia and Slovenia. The draft resolution, which was introduced by
the representative of Germany at the 12th meeting, on 3 November, read as
follows:

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 13

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 46/36 L of 9 December 1991, 47/52 L of
15 December 1992 and 48/75 E of 16 December 1993, concerning transparency
in armaments, and 46/36 H of 6 December 1991 and 48/75 F of
16 December 1993 concerning international arms transfers,

"Considering that an enhanced level of openness and transparency with
regard to international transfers of armaments contributes greatly to
confidence-building and security among States, eases tensions, strengthens
regional and international peace and security, could serve as a useful tool
in facilitating non-proliferation efforts in general and could contribute
to restraint in military production and the transfer of arms,

"Welcoming the work of the Conference on Disarmament on its agenda
item entitled ’Transparency in armaments’,

"Reaffirming the inherent right to individual or collective self-
defence recognized in Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations,
which implies that States also have the right to acquire arms with which to
defend themselves,

"Recognizing the need for Member States to exercise responsibility and
restraint in transfers of conventional arms,

"Stressing its strong belief that excessive and destabilizing
accumulations of arms pose a threat to national, regional and international
peace and security, particularly aggravating tensions and conflict
situations, and give rise to serious and urgent concerns,

"Affirming the need for effective national mechanisms for controlling
the transfer of conventional arms and related technology and for transfers
to take place with those mechanisms,

"1. Calls upon all Member States to consider the establishment of a
voluntary, global and non-discriminatory Code of Conduct for international
conventional arms transfers with a view to promoting voluntary restraint
and responsibility in conventional arms transfers;

"2. Considers that a Code of Conduct for international arms transfers
be elaborated in the most appropriate forum;

"3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session the item entitled ’Code of Conduct for the international transfers
of conventional weapons’".

25. At the 23rd meeting, on 17 November, the representative of Germany stated
that the sponsors intended to request the Committee not to take action on draft
resolution A/C.1/49/L.27.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 14

I. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.28

26. On 2 November, Indonesia, Mexico, Namibia, Nigeria, Zambia and Zimbabwe
submitted a draft resolution entitled "1995 Review and Extension Conference of
States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons"
(A/C.1/49/L.28), which was later also sponsored by the United Republic of
Tanzania. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Nigeria
at the 14th meeting, on 7 November.

27. At the 22nd meeting, on 17 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a
statement concerning the programme budget implications of draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.28 (see A/C.1/49/PV.22).

28. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.28
by a recorded vote of 77 to 39, with 32 abstentions (see para. 60, draft
resolution F). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Albania, Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden,
Tajikistan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Belarus,
Brazil, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Djibouti, Dominica, Egypt, Guyana, India, Israel, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Republic
of Korea, Samoa, San Marino, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic,
Ukraine.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 15

J. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.30 and Rev.1 and Rev.2

29. On 2 November, Mali submitted a draft resolution entitled "Assistance to
States for curbing the illicit traffic in small arms and collecting them"
(A/C.1/49/L.30).

30. On 7 November, Mali joined by Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, the Niger and Senegal, submitted a revised draft
resolution A/C.1/49/L.30/Rev.1. It was introduced by the representative of Mali
at the 16th meeting, on 9 November, and contained the following changes:

(a) The original seventh preambular paragraph, which read:

"Noting with satisfaction the actions taken and those recommended at
the meetings of the States of the subregion held at Banjul, Algiers and
Bamako to establish close regional cooperation with a view to strengthening
security, and the interest shown by other States of the subregion in
receiving the United Nations Consultative Mission",

was revised to read:

"Taking note also of the interest shown by other States of the
subregion in receiving the United Nations Consultative Mission";

(b) The original operative paragraph 1, which read:

"1. Welcomes the actions taken by the Secretary-General leading to
the initiation of preventive diplomacy in the Saharo-Sahelian subregion",

was revised to read:

"1. Welcomes the initiative taken by Mali concerning the question of
the illicit circulation of small arms and their collection in the
Saharo-Sahelian subregion";

(c) The original operative paragraph 2, which read:

"2. Also welcomes the initiative taken by Mali and the appreciable
help given by the Government of Mali to the United Nations Consultative
Mission",

was revised to read:

"2. Also welcomes the action taken by the Secretary-General in
implementation of this initiative";

(d) A new operative paragraph 3 was added, reading:

"3. Thanks the Government of Mali for the appreciable help which it
has given to the Consultative Mission and welcomes the declared readiness
of other States of the subregion to receive the Mission";

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 16

(e) The original operative paragraph 3, which read:

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his action, providing
the necessary assistance to Mali and to all other Member States requesting
it, with a view to curbing the illicit circulation of small arms and
ensuring their collection",

became operative paragraph 4 and was revised to read:

"4. Encourages the Secretary-General to continue his action, with the
support of the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Africa and in close collaboration with the Organization of African Unity,
by providing the necessary assistance to Mali and to all other States
concerned which request it, with a view to curbing the illicit circulation
of small arms and ensuring their collection";

(f) The original operative paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 were renumbered as
paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 respectively.

31. On 17 November, the sponsors submitted a second revised resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.30/Rev.2), which was later also sponsored by Benin, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Chad, Djibouti and Togo. The draft resolution contained the
following changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 4 was further revised as follows:

"4. Congratulates the Secretary-General on his action within the
context of the relevant provisions of resolution 40/151 H of
16 December 1985, and encourages him to continue his efforts to curb the
illicit circulation of small arms and to ensure their collection in the
affected States which so request, with the support of the United Nations
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa and in close cooperation with
the Organization of African Unity";

(b) Operative paragraph 5 (former operative paragraph 4), which read:

"Invites Member States to take all necessary measures to curb the
illicit circulation of small arms, in particular by halting their illegal
export";

was revised to read:

"5. Invites Member States to implement national control measures in
order to check the illicit circulation of small arms, in particular by
curbing the illegal export of such arms".

32. At the 22nd meeting, on 17 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a
statement concerning the programme budget implications of draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.30/Rev.2 (see A/C.1/49/PV.22).

33. At its 25th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.30/Rev.2 without a vote (see para. 60, draft resolution G).

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 17

K. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.33 and Rev.1

34. On 2 November, Japan submitted a draft resolution entitled "Nuclear
disarmament with a view to the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons"
(A/C.1/49/L.33), which was introduced by its representative at the 14th meeting,
on 7 November.

35. On 16 November, Japan submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.33/Rev.1) containing the following changes:

(a) In the second preambular paragraph, the words "expecting their" were
replaced by the words "looking forward to their";

(b) The third preambular paragraph, which read:

"Highly valuing the contribution which the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has made, as the most universal
disarmament treaty with its 165 States parties, including five nuclear-
weapon States, since its entry into force in 1970, to the peace and
security of the world by preventing the international community from
witnessing the emergence of new nuclear-weapon States for the past
twenty-five years",

was replaced by:

"Welcoming also the efforts of other nuclear-weapon States in the
field of nuclear disarmament";

(c) After the third preambular paragraph, a new preambular paragraph was
added reading as follows:

"Attaching great importance to the contribution which the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has made to the peace and security
of the world since its entry into force in 1970";

(d) In the fifth preambular paragraph (formerly fourth), after the word
"Welcoming", the word "the" was added;

(e) The former fifth and sixth preambular paragraphs were deleted;

(f) In operative paragraph 1, the word "Vigorously" was deleted;

(g) Operative paragraph 2, which read:

"2. Calls upon the nuclear-weapon States to further pursue
negotiations on progressive and balanced reductions of nuclear weapons in
the light of article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons, with a view to the ultimate objectives of the cessation of the
manufacture of nuclear weapons, the liquidation of all their existing
stockpiles, and the elimination from national arsenals of nuclear weapons
and the means of their delivery as part of international efforts for

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 18

general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international
control",

was revised to read:

"2. Calls upon the nuclear-weapon States to pursue their efforts for
nuclear disarmament with the ultimate objective of the elimination of
nuclear weapons in the framework of general and complete disarmament, and
also calls upon all States to fully implement their commitments in the
field of disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction".

36. At its 24th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.33/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 140 to none, with 8 abstentions (see
para. 60, draft resolution H). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Brazil, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, France,
India, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 19

L. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.34 and Rev.1

37. On 2 November, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Convening of the fourth special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament" (A/C.1/49/L.34), which was introduced
by its representative at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

38. On 15 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.34/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

(a) The third preambular paragraph, which read:

"Reiterating its conviction that the implementation of disarmament
measures, particularly nuclear disarmament, is essential for achieving
global peace and security",

was deleted;

(b) Operative paragraphs 1 and 2, which read:

"1. Decides to convene in May/June 1996 the fourth special session of
the General Assembly devoted to disarmament;

"2. Further decides to establish a preparatory committee for the
special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament open to all
States with the mandate of examining all relevant questions relating to the
special session, including its agenda, and submitting to the Assembly at
its fiftieth session appropriate recommendations thereon",

were revised to read:

"1. Decides to convene in 1997 the fourth special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament;

"2. Further decides that at its fiftieth regular session it will
establish a preparatory committee for the special session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament open to all States with the mandate of
examining all relevant questions relating to the special session, including
its agenda, and submitting to the Assembly at its fifty-first session
appropriate recommendations thereon";

(c) Operative paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 were deleted and operative paragraph 6
was renumbered as paragraph 3.

39. On 17 November, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Turkey, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America
submitted amendments (A/C.1/49/L.52) to the revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.34/Rev.1), by which:

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 20

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the word "central" would be
deleted;

(b) Operative paragraph 1 would be replaced by the following:

"1. Decides in principle to convene a fourth special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament at an appropriate date to be
determined following consultations";

(c) Operative paragraphs 2 and 3 would be deleted.

40. At the 25th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of India proposed
oral amendments to the revised draft resolution (A/C.1/49/L.34/Rev.1), by which:

(a) Operative paragraph 1 would be amended to read:

"1. Decides, in principle, to convene, in 1997 if possible, the
fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, the
date to be determined at the fiftieth regular session";

(b) Operative paragraph 2 would be deleted and operative paragraph 3 would
be renumbered as paragraph 2.

41. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America
made a statement on behalf of the sponsors that they intended not to press the
amendments contained in document A/C.1/49/L.52 to a vote.

42. The Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.34/Rev.1, as orally
amended, without a vote (see para. 60, draft resolution I).

M. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.35

43. On 3 November, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Relationship between disarmament and development"
(A/C.1/49/L.35), which was later also sponsored by Haiti. The draft resolution
was introduced by the representative of Indonesia at the 15th meeting, on
9 November.

44. At its 20th meeting on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.35 without a vote (see para. 60, draft resolution J).

N. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.36

45. On 3 November, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Request for an advisory opinion from the
International Court of Justice on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear
weapons" (A/C.1/49/L.36). The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Indonesia at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 21

46. At its 24th meeting, on 18 November, the Committee acted on a no-action
motion on draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.36, which was proposed by the
representative of Morocco. The motion was rejected by a recorded vote of 45 to
67, with 15 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Belarus, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Latvia, Luxembourg, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Morocco,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Against: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cape Verde,
Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Austria, Azerbaijan, Cameroon, Côte
d’Ivoire, El Salvador, Ireland, Jamaica, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, New Zealand, Niger, Republic of Moldova, San
Marino, Sweden.

47. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.36
by a recorded vote of 77 to 33, with 21 abstentions (see para. 60, draft
resolution K). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cape Verde,
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 22

Tobago, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Belgium, Benin, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta,
Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania,
Russian Federation, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Cameroon, Canada, Ireland, Jamaica,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Niger,
Norway, Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Sweden, Ukraine.

O. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.38

48. On 3 November, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and nuclear
disarmament" (A/C.1/49/L.38). The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Indonesia at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

49. At its 23rd meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.38 without a vote (see para. 60, draft resolution L).

P. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.40 and Rev.1

50. On 3 November, Afghanistan and Colombia submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Measures to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional arms"
(A/C.1/49/L.40), which was later also sponsored by Ecuador, Guatemala,
Sri Lanka, the Sudan and Zimbabwe. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Afghanistan at the 15th meeting, on 9 November.

51. On 10 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.40/Rev.1), which was later also sponsored by Botswana, Costa Rica,
El Salvador, South Africa and Swaziland. The revised draft resolution contained
the following changes:

(a) The original third preambular paragraph, which read:

"Realizing the urgent need to resolve conflicts and to diminish
tensions with a view to maintaining regional and international peace and
security",

was revised to read:

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 23

"Realizing the urgent need to resolve conflicts and to diminish
tensions and accelerate efforts towards general and complete disarmament
with a view to maintaining regional and international peace and security";

(b) The original fifth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Stressing the need for international regulation of the transfer of
conventional weapons",

was revised to read:

"Stressing the need for effective national control measures on the
transfer of conventional weapons";

(c) The original seventh preambular paragraph, which read:

"Convinced that peace and security are imperatives for economic
development and reconstruction",

was revised to read:

"Convinced that peace and security are inextricably interlinked with
and in some cases imperative for economic development and reconstruction";

(d) The original operative paragraph 2, which read:

"2. Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with
relevant information on national regulations on arms transfers with a view
to preventing illicit arms transfers, and, in this context, to take
immediate, appropriate and effective measures to ensure that illicit
transfers of arms are discontinued",

was revised to read:

"2. Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with
relevant information on national control measures on arms transfers with a
view to preventing illicit arms transfers, and, in this context, to take
immediate, appropriate and effective measures to seek to ensure that
illicit transfers of arms are discontinued";

(e) The original operative paragraph 3, which read:

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to:

"(a) Seek the views of Member States on effective ways and means of
collecting illegal weapons in countries concerned, as well as on concrete
proposals concerning measures at national, regional and international
levels to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional arms;

"(b) Study, within the existing resources, upon request from the
concerned Member States, the possibilities of illicit arms collection in
the light of the experience gained by the United Nations and the views

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 24

expressed by Member States and to submit a report on the result of his
study to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session",

was revised to read:

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to:

"(a) Seek the views of Member States on effective ways and means of
collecting weapons illicitly transferred in interested countries, as well
as on concrete proposals concerning measures at national, regional and
international levels to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional
arms;

"(b) Study, within the existing resources, upon request from the
concerned Member States, the possibilities of the collection of weapons
illicitly transferred in the light of the experience gained by the United
Nations and the views expressed by Member States and to submit a report on
the result of his study to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session".

52. At its 19th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted the revised
draft resolution (A/C.1/49/L.40/Rev.1) without a vote (see para. 60, draft
resolution M).

Q. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.42

53. On 3 November, Albania, Armenia, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Egypt,
Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Italy, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Nepal, New Zealand, the Niger, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Senegal, Sri
Lanka, the Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, the
United States of America, Zambia and Zimbabwe submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Regional disarmament" (A/C.1/49/L.42), which was also later sponsored
by Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Haiti, Kenya, the Republic of Moldova and
Turkmenistan. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Pakistan at the 19th meeting, on 14 November.

54. At its 19th meeting on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.42 by a recorded vote of 140 to none, with 2 abstentions (see
para. 60, draft resolution N). The voting was as follows: 5/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,

5/ Subsequently, the delegations of Djibouti and Paraguay indicated that,
had they been present, they would have voted in favour of draft resolution.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 25

El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: India, Nigeria.

R. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.43

55. On 3 November, Haiti, Pakistan and Swaziland submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels"
(A/C.1/49/L.43). The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Pakistan at the 19th meeting, on 14 November.

56. At its 19th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution A/C.1/49/L.43 by a recorded vote of 129 to none, with 11 abstentions
(see para. 60, draft resolution O). The voting was as follows: 6/, 7/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s

6/ Subsequently, the delegations of Djibouti and Paraguay indicated that,
had they been present, they would have voted in favour of draft resolution.

7/ Subsequently, the delegation of Venezuela informed the Secretariat
that it had intended to abstain.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 26

Republic of Korea, Denmark, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Brazil, Cuba, Ecuador, Guatemala, India, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Mexico, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Singapore.

S. Draft resolution A/C.1/49/L.44 and Rev.1

57. On 3 November, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the United States of America submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and nuclear
disarmament" (A/C.1/49/L.44).

58. On 8 November, the sponsors, joined by Belgium, Greece and Norway submitted
a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/49/L.44/Rev.1), which was later also sponsored
by Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Turkey.
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of the United States
of America at the 23rd meeting, on 17 November, and contained the following
changes:

(a) The original ninth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to
begin the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons from a deployed
status, and bilateral agreements on the issue of de-targeting strategic
nuclear missiles",

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 27

was revised as follows:

"Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to
begin the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and removing
such weapons from a deployed status, and bilateral agreements on the issue
of de-targeting strategic nuclear missiles";

(b) The original eleventh preambular paragraph, which read:

"Noting also that the Russian Federation and the United States of
America concurred that, once the START II Treaty is ratified, the Russian
Federation and the United States of America would proceed to deactivate all
strategic delivery systems to be reduced under START II by removing their
nuclear warheads or taking other steps to remove them from alert status",

was revised as follows:

"Noting also that the Russian Federation and the United States of
America concurred that, once the Treaty between them on the Further
Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms was ratified, they
would proceed to deactivate all strategic delivery systems to be reduced
under the Treaty by removing their nuclear warheads or taking other steps
to remove them from alert status";

(c) The original twelfth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Noting further the agreement between the Russian Federation and the
United States of America to intensify their dialogue to compare conceptual
approaches and to develop concrete steps to adapt the nuclear forces and
practices on both sides to the changed international security situation,
including the possibility, after ratification of START II, of further
reductions of, and limitations on, remaining nuclear forces",

was revised as follows:

"Noting further the agreement between the Russian Federation and the
United States of America to intensify their dialogue to compare conceptual
approaches and to develop concrete steps to adapt the nuclear forces and
practices on both sides to the changed international security situation,
including the possibility, after ratification of the Treaty on the Further
Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, of further reductions
of and limitations on remaining nuclear forces";

(d) In the original operative paragraph 1, the words "the Presidents of"
were added after the words "the trilateral statement by";

(e) In the original operative paragraph 6, the word "Further" was deleted.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 28

59. At its 23rd meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.44/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 122 to none, with 2 abstentions (see
para. 60, draft resolution P). The voting was as follows: 8/

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Latvia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian
Federation, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States
of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: India, Namibia.

8/ Subsequently, the delegations of Bahrain, Guatemala, Iraq, Kuwait,
Nepal, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates indicated that, had they been
present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 29

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

60. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

General and complete disarmament

A

Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind resolutions CM/Res.1153 (XLVIII) of 1988 9/ and
CM/Res.1225 (L) of 1989, 10/ adopted by the Council of Ministers of the
Organization of African Unity, concerning the dumping of nuclear and industrial
wastes in Africa,

Welcoming resolution GC(XXXIII)/RES/509 on the dumping of nuclear wastes,
adopted on 29 September 1989 by the General Conference of the International
Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-third regular session, 11/

Welcoming also resolution GC(XXXIV)/RES/530 establishing a Code of Practice
on the International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste, adopted on
21 September 1990 by the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy
Agency at its thirty-fourth regular session, 12/

Considering its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it
requested the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, 13/ inter alia, to
consider effective methods of control against the use of radiological methods of
warfare,

________________________

9/ See A/43/398, annex I.

10/ See A/44/603, annex I.

11/ See International Atomic Energy Agency, Resolutions and Other
Decisions of the General Conference, Thirty-third Regular Session,
25-29 September 1989 (GC(XXXIII)/RESOLUTIONS (1989)).

12/ Ibid., Thirty-fourth Regular Session, 17-21 September 1990
(GC(XXXIV)/RESOLUTIONS (1990)).

13/ The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 30

Recalling resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991, adopted by the Council of
Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, 14/ on the Bamako Convention on
the Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the Control of
Their Transboundary Movements within Africa,

Aware of the potential hazards underlying any use of radioactive wastes
that would constitute radiological warfare and its implications for regional and
international security, in particular for the security of developing countries,

Recalling its resolutions 43/75 Q of 7 December 1988, 44/116 R of
15 December 1989, 45/58 K of 4 December 1990, 46/36 K of 6 December 1991,
47/52 D of 9 December 1992 and 48/75 D of 16 December 1993,

Desirous of promoting the implementation of paragraph 76 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 15/

1. Takes note of the part of the report of the Conference on Disarmament
relating to a future convention on the prohibition of radiological weapons; 16/

2. Expresses grave concern regarding any use of nuclear wastes that would
constitute radiological warfare and have grave implications for the national
security of all States;

3. Calls upon all States to take appropriate measures with a view to
preventing any dumping of nuclear or radioactive wastes that would infringe upon
the sovereignty of States;

4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to take into account, in the
negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of radiological weapons,
radioactive wastes as part of the scope of such a convention;

5. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify efforts
towards an early conclusion of such a convention and to include in its report to
the General Assembly at its fiftieth session the progress recorded in the
negotiations on this subject;

6. Takes note of resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991, adopted by the
Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, on the Bamako
Convention on the Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the
Control of Their Transboundary Movements within Africa;

________________________

14/ See A/46/390, annex I.

15/ Resolution S-10/2.

16/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27), chap. III, sect. F.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 31

7. Expresses the hope that the effective implementation of the
International Atomic Energy Agency Code of Practice on the International
Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste will enhance the protection of all
States from the dumping of radioactive wastes on their territories;

8. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue keeping
the subject under active review, including the desirability of concluding a
legally binding instrument in this field;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes".

B

Review of the Declaration of the 1990s as
the Third Disarmament Decade

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 45/62 A of 4 December 1990, by which it adopted
the text of the Declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade and
declared the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade,

Noting the great changes in international relations that have occurred
since the adoption of the Declaration in 1990,

Noting in particular the end of the cold war and bipolar rivalries between
the East and the West, thus heralding a new era of cooperation in international
relations,

Alarmed nevertheless at the outbursts of ethnic and nationalist conflicts
as well as disturbing issues in arms control and disarmament in different parts
of the world and the consequent deterioration in security situations in these
areas, with negative implications for international peace and security,

Convinced of the need to review and assess the achievement of the
objectives of the Declaration and, if need be, to adapt them to meet the new
challenges of the post-cold-war era,

1. Decides to undertake, at its fiftieth session, the middle of the
Decade, a review and appraisal of the implementation of the Declaration of the
1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade;

2. Requests the Disarmament Commission, at its 1995 session, to make a
preliminary assessment of the implementation of the Declaration as well as
suggestions that may be put forward to ensure appropriate progress, and to
submit a report to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

3. Requests the Disarmament Commission to include in the agenda of its
1995 substantive session an item entitled "Review of the Declaration of the
1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade";

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 32

4. Calls upon the Disarmament Commission to include in its assessment
relevant matters which, in the view of Member States, require such review;

5. Requests Member States to submit to the Secretary-General their views
and suggestions on such a review no later than 30 April 1995;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the
Disarmament Commission in implementing the present resolution;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
an item entitled "Review of the Declaration of the 1990s as the Third
Disarmament Decade".

C

Transparency in armaments

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 46/36 L of 9 December 1991, 47/52 L of
15 December 1992 and 48/75 E of 16 December 1993 entitled "Transparency in
armaments",

Continuing to take the view that an enhanced level of transparency in
armaments contributes greatly to confidence-building and security among States
and that the establishment of the Register of Conventional Arms 17/ constitutes
an important step forward in the promotion of transparency in military matters,

Welcoming the consolidated report of the Secretary-General on the Register
of Conventional Arms, 18/ which includes the returns for 1993 of Member States,

Welcoming the response of Member States to the request contained in
paragraphs 9 and 10 of resolution 46/36 L to provide data on their imports and
exports of arms, as well as available background information regarding their
military holdings, procurement through national production and relevant
policies,

Stressing that the continuing operation of the Register and its further
development should be reviewed in order to secure a Register which is capable of
attracting the widest possible participation,

Taking note of the report of the Conference on Disarmament on its agenda
item entitled "Transparency in armaments", 19/

________________________

17/ Resolution 46/36 L.

18/ A/49/352 of 1 September 1994.

19/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27), chap. III, sect. H.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 33

1. Reaffirms its determination to ensure the effective operation of the
Register of Conventional Arms as provided for in paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10 of
resolution 46/36 L;

2. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the continuing
operation of the Register and its further development 20/ and the
recommendations contained therein;

3. Calls upon Member States to provide the requested data and information
for the Register, on the basis of resolutions 46/36 L and 47/52 L and the annex
and appendices to the report of the Secretary-General on the continuing
operation of the Register and its further development, to the Secretary-General
by 30 April annually;

4. Decides, with a view to further development of the Register, to keep
the scope of and participation in the Register under review, and, to this end:

(a) Requests Member States to provide the Secretary-General with their
views on the continuing operation of the Register and its further development
and on transparency measures related to weapons of mass destruction;

(b) Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group of
governmental experts to be convened in 1997, on the basis of equitable
geographical representation, to prepare a report on the continuing operation of
the Register and its further development, taking into account work of the
Conference on Disarmament, the views expressed by Member States and the 1994
report of the Secretary-General on the continuing operation of the Register and
its further development, with a view to a decision at its fifty-second session;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that sufficient resources are
made available for the United Nations Secretariat to operate and maintain the
Register;

6. Invites the Conference on Disarmament to consider continuing its work
undertaken in the field of transparency in armaments;

7. Reiterates its call upon all Member States to cooperate at the
regional and subregional levels, taking fully into account the specific
conditions prevailing in the region or subregion, with a view to enhancing and
coordinating international efforts aimed at increased openness and transparency
in armaments;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session on progress made in implementing the present resolution;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Transparency in armaments".

20/ A/49/316 of 22 September 1994.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 34

D

Moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines

The General Assembly,

Recalling with satisfaction its resolution 48/75 of 16 December 1993, by
which it, inter alia, called upon States to agree to a moratorium on the export
of anti-personnel land-mines that pose grave dangers to civilian populations,
and urged States to implement such a moratorium,

Noting that there are approximately 85 million or more anti-personnel
land-mines in the ground throughout the world and that many thousands of such
mines continue to be laid in an indiscriminate manner,

Expressing deep concern that anti-personnel land-mines kill or maim
hundreds of people every week, mostly unarmed civilians, obstruct economic
development and reconstruction and have other severe consequences, which include
inhibiting the repatriation of refugees and the return of internally displaced
persons,

Welcoming the programmes of assistance which exist for demining and
humanitarian support for the victims of anti-personnel land-mines,

Gravely concerned with the suffering and casualties caused to
non-combatants as a result of the proliferation, as well as the indiscriminate
and irresponsible use, of anti-personnel land-mines,

Recognizing that States can move most effectively towards the ultimate goal
of the eventual elimination of anti-personnel land-mines as viable and humane
alternatives are developed,

Recalling with satisfaction the report of the Secretary-General 21/
concerning progress on the initiative in the aforementioned resolution,

Convinced that moratoriums by States exporting anti-personnel land-mines
that pose grave dangers to civilian populations are important measures in
helping to reduce substantially the human and economic costs resulting from the
use of such devices,

Noting with satisfaction that many States already have declared moratoriums
on the export, transfer or sale of anti-personnel land-mines and related
devices, with many of these moratoriums being declared as a result of the
aforementioned resolution,

Believing that ongoing efforts to strengthen the Convention on Prohibitions
or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed

21/ A/49/275.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 35

to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, 22/
particularly Protocol II, 23/ are an important part of the overall effort to
address problems caused by anti-personnel land-mines,

Recalling with satisfaction its resolution 48/7 of 19 October 1993 calling
for assistance in mine clearance,

1. Welcomes the moratoriums already declared by certain States on the
export of anti-personnel land-mines;

2. Urges States that have not yet done so to declare such moratoriums at
the earliest possible date;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report on steps taken by
Member States to implement such moratoriums, and to submit it to the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session under the item entitled "General and complete
disarmament";

4. Emphasizes the importance of the Convention on Prohibitions or
Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to
Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects and its Protocols as
the authoritative international instrument governing the responsible use of
anti-personnel land-mines and related devices;

5. Urges States that have not done so to adhere to the Convention and its
Protocols;

6. Encourages further international efforts to seek solutions to the
problems caused by anti-personnel land-mines, with a view to the eventual
elimination of anti-personnel land-mines.

E

Step-by-step reduction of the nuclear threat

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the goal of the total elimination of nuclear weapons,

Desiring to reduce, progressively and systematically, the threat posed by
nuclear weapons,

Welcoming the respite from the intense competition in the accumulation of
weapon-grade fissile materials, in the production of nuclear warheads and in the
deployment of nuclear-weapon systems which characterized the cold war,

22/ See The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 5:1980 (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.81.IX.4), appendix VII.

23/ Ibid., Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines,
Booby Traps and Other Devices.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 36

Mindful that processing of special fissionable material for weapon purposes
and production of nuclear warheads continues at a steady pace in some States,
and that many thousands of nuclear-weapon systems remain deployed at the brink
of war,

Welcoming also the standing down of some nuclear-weapon systems from full
alert and the elimination of certain types of weapons,

Mindful also that the military doctrines regarding the threat of use of
nuclear weapons remain unaltered, and that most agreed reductions do not entail
destruction of the nuclear warheads or delivery vehicles,

Welcoming further the steps taken to increase transparency in armaments and
the emerging pattern of closing or converting nuclear-weapon production
facilities,

Mindful further of the continuing lack of internationally verified
inventories of the nuclear arsenals and that plans for the redirection of
nuclear-weapon facilities to the task of dismantlement of the nuclear arsenals
are only at an early state of development,

Wishing to further current efforts regarding multilateral negotiations and
agreements, and conscious of the urgent need for expeditious action for this
purpose,

Confident that the Conference on Disarmament can serve as an effective
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, as envisioned at its 1978 special
session devoted to disarmament 24/ and as evidenced recently by the
successful conclusion of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction, 25/

Persuaded that agreement upon a five- to ten-year agenda on nuclear arms
control would provide a needed, overall sense of direction to global disarmament
efforts,

Convinced that the successful pursuit of such an agenda would significantly
advance the goal of the elimination of nuclear weapons from national arsenals,

1. Identifies the following general areas for step-by-step reduction of
the nuclear threat:

Area A. Steps to counter, inter alia:

(a) The acquisition and processing of special fissionable material
for nuclear-weapon purposes;

24/ Resolution S-10/2, para. 120.

25/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), appendix I.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 37

(b) The manufacture and testing of nuclear warheads and their
delivery vehicles;

(c) The assembly and deployment of nuclear-weapon systems;

by such means as:

(i) Prohibiting the test explosion of nuclear weapons;

(ii) Cutting off the production of special fissile materials for
weapon purposes;

(iii) Ending production of nuclear warheads;

(iv) Ending the production and testing of intermediate- and long-range
ballistic missiles for nuclear-weapon purposes;

(v) Effective legally binding measures to deter the use or threat of
use of nuclear weapons;

(vi) Other related measures;

Area B. Steps to actuate, inter alia:

(a) The withdrawal from deployment and disassembly of nuclear-weapon
systems;

(b) The secure storage and dismantlement of nuclear warheads and
their delivery vehicles;

(c) The elimination of special fissionable materials for nuclear-
weapon purposes;

by such means as:

(i) Standing down nuclear-weapon systems from high-alert status;

(ii) Separating nuclear warheads from their delivery vehicles;

(iii) Placing nuclear warheads in secure storage;

(iv) Converting delivery vehicles, where appropriate, to peaceful
uses;

(v) Removing special nuclear materials from warheads;

(vi) Converting special nuclear materials to non-weapon purposes;

(vii) Other related measures;

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 38

Area C. Steps to prepare, under international auspices:

(a) An inventory of the nuclear arsenals, including:

(i) All special fissile materials, nuclear warheads and their
delivery vehicles;

(ii) All facilities devoted to the processing, manufacture, assembly
and deployment of those items;

(b) A reorientation of those facilities necessary to the task of
implementing measures relating to area B;

(c) The closure or conversion to peaceful purposes of all other such
facilities in furtherance of measures relating to area A;

2. Asks Member States, in particular the nuclear-weapon States, to
consider steps which they might take unilaterally, bilaterally, or in
cooperation with other States, to promote progress in the identified areas, and
fully to inform the international community of any steps taken in this regard;

3. Recommends to the Conference on Disarmament that in 1995 it:

(a) Develop from the three general areas identified in paragraph 1 of the
present resolution a comprehensive set of practical, verifiable measures for
possible negotiation in their next five- and ten-year periods;

(b) Determine from that set a year-by-year sequence and combination of
negotiations on specific measures to be commenced during the next five- and
ten-year periods, with due regard to steps taken pursuant to paragraph 2;

4. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to include in its 1995 report
to the General Assembly a section on efforts undertaken in accordance with the
recommendation set out in paragraph 3;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
an item entitled "Step-by-step reduction of the nuclear threat".

F

1995 Review and Extension Conference of States Parties to
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2373 (XXII) of 12 June 1968, the annex to which
contains the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,

Noting the provisions of article X, paragraph 2, of that Treaty, which
stipulates the holding of a conference twenty-five years after the entry into
force of the Treaty, to decide whether the Treaty shall continue in force
indefinitely or shall be extended for an additional fixed period or periods,

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 39

Desirous of ensuring the consolidation of the Treaty with a view to
achieving ultimately the elimination of nuclear weapons,

Aware of the need for the Treaty to attain universality of membership,

Convinced that the decision on the extension of the Treaty should lead to
further progress in nuclear disarmament, in accordance with the preamble and
article VI of the Treaty,

Noting, therefore, the necessity of giving careful consideration to all
possible options in order to take a decision that is appropriate and capable of
strengthening the non-proliferation regime in the pursuit of the ultimate
objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons,

Conscious of the fact that there are various interpretations which have
been expressed concerning the application of article X, paragraph 2, of the
Treaty,

1. Calls upon States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons to give appropriate consideration to the import of the Treaty in
its entirety and with special attention to its article X, paragraph 2;

2. Invites States parties to provide their legal interpretations of
article X, paragraph 2, of the Treaty and their views on the different options
and actions available, for compilation by the Secretary-General as a background
document of the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of States Parties to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, well before the holding of
that Conference.

G

Assistance to States for curbing the illicit
traffic in small arms and collecting them

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 46/36 H of 6 December 1991, 47/52 G and 47/52 J
of 9 December 1992 and 48/75 H and 48/75 J of 16 December 1993,

Considering that the circulation of massive quantities of small arms
throughout the world impedes development and is a source of increased
insecurity,

Considering also that the illicit international transfer of small arms and
their accumulation in many countries constitutes a threat to the populations and
to national and regional security and is a factor contributing to the
destabilization of States,

Basing itself on the statement of the Secretary-General relating to the
request of Mali concerning United Nations assistance for the collection of small
arms,

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 40

Gravely concerned at the extent of the insecurity and banditry linked to
the illicit circulation of small arms in Mali and the other affected States of
the Saharo-Sahelian subregion,

Taking note of the first conclusions of the United Nations Advisory Mission
sent to Mali by the Secretary-General to study the best way of curbing the
illicit circulation of small arms and ensuring their collection,

Taking note also of the interest shown by other States of the subregion in
receiving the United Nations Advisory Mission,

Noting the actions taken and those recommended at the meetings of the
States of the subregion held at Banjul, Algiers and Bamako to establish close
regional cooperation with a view to strengthening security,

1. Welcomes the initiative taken by Mali concerning the question of the
illicit circulation of small arms and their collection in the affected States of
the Saharo-Sahelian subregion;

2. Also welcomes the action taken by the Secretary-General in
implementation of this initiative;

3. Thanks the Government of Mali for the appreciable help which it has
given to the United Nations Advisory Mission and welcomes the declared readiness
of other States of the subregion to receive the Mission;

4. Congratulates the Secretary-General on his action within the context
of the relevant provisions of resolution 40/151 H of 16 December 1985, and
encourages him to continue his efforts to curb the illicit circulation of small
arms and to ensure their collection in the affected States which so request,
with the support of the United Nations Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Africa and in close cooperation with the Organization of African Unity;

5. Invites Member States to implement national control measures in order
to check the illicit circulation of small arms, in particular by curbing the
illegal export of such arms;

6. Also invites the international community to give appropriate support
to the efforts made by the affected countries to suppress the illicit
circulation of small arms, which is likely to hamper their development;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to report to it on the question at its
fiftieth session.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 41

H

Nuclear disarmament with a view to the ultimate
elimination of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Recognizing that the end of the cold war has increased the possibility of
creating a world free from the fear of nuclear war,

Welcoming the efforts of the Russian Federation and the United States of
America for nuclear disarmament and the conclusion of the two treaties on the
reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms (START I and START II), and
looking forward to their early entry into force,

Welcoming also the efforts of other nuclear-weapon States in the field of
nuclear disarmament,

Attaching great importance to the contribution which the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has made to the peace and security of the
world since its entry into force in 1970,

Welcoming the positive developments in the negotiations for a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty based on the consensus achieved at the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly,

1. Urges States not parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons to accede to it at the earliest possible date, recognizing the
importance of the universality of the Treaty;

2. Calls upon the nuclear-weapon States to pursue their efforts for
nuclear disarmament with the ultimate objective of the elimination of nuclear
weapons in the framework of general and complete disarmament, and also calls
upon all States to fully implement their commitments in the field of disarmament
and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

I

Convening of the fourth special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling that three special sessions of the General Assembly devoted to
disarmament were held in 1978, 1982 and 1988, respectively,

Bearing in mind the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, 26/ the first special session devoted to disarmament, and

26/ Resolution S-10/2.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 42

the final objective of general and complete disarmament under effective
international control,

Welcoming the recent positive changes in the international landscape,
characterized by the end of the cold war, the relaxation of tensions at the
global level and the emergence of a new spirit governing relations among
nations,

Stressing the central role of the United Nations for the promotion of
disarmament, peace and security,

1. Decides, in principle, to convene, in 1997 if possible, the fourth
special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, the date to be
determined at the fiftieth session;

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
an item entitled "Fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to
disarmament".

J

Relationship between disarmament and development

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session
of the General Assembly 27/ concerning the relationship between disarmament
and development,

Recalling also the adoption on 11 September 1987 of the Final Document of
the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and
Development, 28/

Recalling further its resolution 48/75 A of 16 December 1993,

Bearing in mind the final documents of the Tenth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to
6 September 1992, 29/

Stressing the growing importance of the symbiotic relationship between
disarmament and development in current international relations,

27/ Ibid.

28/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8.

29/ A/47/675-S/24816, annex.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 43

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General 30/ and actions
undertaken in accordance with the Final Document of the International Conference
on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take action, through
appropriate organs and within available resources, for the implementation of the
action programme adopted at the International Conference; 31/

3. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Relationship between disarmament and development".

K

Request for an advisory opinion from the International Court of
Justice on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Conscious that the continuing existence and development of nuclear weapons
pose serious risks to humanity,

Mindful that States have an obligation under the Charter of the United
Nations to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial
integrity or political independence of any State,

Recalling its resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 B of
14 December 1978, 34/83 G of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980,
36/92 I of 9 December 1981, 45/59 B of 4 December 1990 and 46/37 D of
6 December 1991, in which it declared that the use of nuclear weapons would be a
violation of the Charter and a crime against humanity,

Welcoming the progress made on the prohibition and elimination of weapons
of mass destruction, including the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and
Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction 32/ and the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical
Weapons and on Their Destruction, 33/

30/ A/49/476.

31/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8, para. 35.

32/ Resolution 2826 (XXVI).

33/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), appendix I.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 44

Convinced that the complete elimination of nuclear weapons is the only
guarantee against the threat of nuclear war,

Noting the concerns expressed in the Fourth Review Conference of the
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, that
insufficient progress had been made towards the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons at the earliest possible time,

Recalling that the General Assembly, convinced of the need to strengthen
the rule of law in international relations, has declared the period 1990-1999
the United Nations Decade of International Law, 34/

Noting that Article 96, paragraph 1, of the Charter empowers the General
Assembly to request the International Court of Justice to give an advisory
opinion on any legal question,

Recalling the recommendation of the Secretary-General, made in his report
entitled "An Agenda for Peace", 35/ that United Nations organs that are
authorized to take advantage of the advisory competence of the International
Court of Justice turn to the Court more frequently for such opinions,

Welcoming resolution 46/40 of 14 May 1993 of the Assembly of the World
Health Organization, in which the organization requested the International Court
of Justice to give an advisory opinion on whether the use of nuclear weapons by
a State in war or other armed conflict would be a breach of its obligations
under international law, including the Constitution of the World Health
Organization,

Decides, pursuant to Article 96, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United
Nations, to request the International Court of Justice urgently to render its
advisory opinion on the following question: "Is the threat or use of nuclear
weapons in any circumstance permitted under international law?".

L

Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and nuclear disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous relevant resolutions,

Recognizing the fundamental changes that have taken place with respect to
international security, which have permitted agreements on deep reductions in
the nuclear armaments of the States possessing the largest inventories of such
weapons,

34/ Resolution 44/23.

35/ A/47/277-S/24111.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 45

Mindful that it is the responsibility and obligation of all States to
contribute to the process of the relaxation of international tension and to the
strengthening of international peace and security,

Stressing the importance of strengthening international peace and security
through disarmament,

Emphasizing that nuclear disarmament remains one of the principal tasks of
our times,

Stressing that it is the responsibility of all States to adopt and
implement measures towards the attainment of general and complete disarmament
under effective international control,

Appreciating a number of positive developments in the field of nuclear
disarmament, in particular the treaty between the former Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the elimination of their
intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles, 36/ and the treaties on the
reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms,

Noting that there are still significant nuclear arsenals and that the
primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament, with the objective of the
elimination of nuclear weapons, rests with the nuclear-weapon States, in
particular those which possess the largest stockpiles,

Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to begin
the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and removing such weapons
from a deployed status, and bilateral agreements on the issue of de-targeting
strategic nuclear missiles,

Noting the new climate of relations between the United States of America
and the States of the former Soviet Union, which permits them to intensify their
cooperative efforts to ensure the safety, security and environmentally sound
destruction of nuclear weapons,

Noting also that the Russian Federation and the United States of America
concurred that, once the Treaty between them on the Further Reduction and
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms was ratified, they would proceed to
deactivate all strategic delivery systems to be reduced under the Treaty by
removing their nuclear warheads or taking other steps to remove them from alert
status,

Noting further the agreement between the Russian Federation and the United
States of America to intensify their dialogue to compare conceptual approaches
and to develop concrete steps to adapt the nuclear forces and practices and both
sides to the changed international security situation, including the
possibility, after ratification of the Treaty on the Further Reduction and

36/ See A/47/965-S/25944; see Official Records of the Security Council,
Forty-eighth Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1993, document S/25944.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 46

Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, of further reduction of and limitations
on remaining nuclear forces,

Urging the further intensification of such efforts to accelerate the
implementation of agreements and unilateral decisions relating to nuclear-arms
reduction,

Welcoming the reductions made by other nuclear-weapon States in some of
their nuclear-weapon programmes, and encouraging all nuclear-weapon States to
consider appropriate measures relating to nuclear disarmament,

Affirming that bilateral and multilateral negotiations on nuclear
disarmament should facilitate and complement each other,

1. Welcomes the actions taken towards the ratification of the Treaty on
the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms signed in Moscow on
31 July 1991 by the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United
States of America and the protocol to that Treaty signed at Lisbon on
23 May 1992 by the four parties thereto, and urges the parties to take the
necessary steps to ensure its entry into force at the earliest possible date;

2. Also welcomes the signing of the Treaty between the Russian Federation
and the United States of America on the Further Reduction and Limitation of
Strategic Offensive Arms in Moscow on 3 January 1993, and urges the parties to
take the steps necessary to bring that Treaty into force at the earliest
possible date;

3. Expresses its satisfaction at the continuing implementation of the
treaty on the elimination of intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles, 36/
in particular at the completion by the parties of the destruction of all their
declared missiles subject to elimination under the Treaty;

4. Encourages the United States of America, the Russian Federation,
Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine to continue their cooperative efforts aimed at
eliminating nuclear weapons and strategic offensive arms on the basis of
existing agreements, and welcomes the contributions that other States are making
to such cooperation as well;

5. Also encourages and supports the Russian Federation and the United
States of America in their efforts to reduce their nuclear armaments and to
continue to give those efforts the highest priority in order to contribute to
the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons;

6. Invites the Russian Federation and the United States of America to
keep other States Members of the United Nations duly informed of progress in
their discussions and in the implementation of their strategic offensive arms
agreements and unilateral decisions.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 47

M

Measures to curb the illicit transfer and use
of conventional arms

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 46/36 H of 6 December 1991 and its decision 47/419
of 9 December 1992 on international arms transfers,

Recalling also its resolutions 48/75 F and 48/75 H of 16 December 1993 on
international arms transfers and measures to curb the illicit transfer and use
of conventional weapons, respectively,

Realizing the urgent need to resolve conflicts and to diminish tensions and
accelerate efforts towards general and complete disarmament with a view to
maintaining regional and international peace and security,

Recognizing that the availability of massive quantities of conventional
weapons and especially their illicit transfer, often associated with
destabilizing activities, are most disturbing and dangerous phenomena,
particularly for the internal situation of affected States and the violation of
human rights,

Stressing the need for effective national control measures on the transfer
of conventional weapons,

Recognizing the curbing of the illicit transfer of arms as an important
contribution to the relaxation of tension and peaceful reconciliation processes,

Convinced that peace and security are inextricably interlinked with and in
some cases imperative for economic development and reconstruction,

1. Invites the Disarmament Commission to:

(a) Expedite its consideration of the agenda item on international arms
transfers, with special emphasis on the adverse consequences of the illicit
transfer of arms and ammunition;

(b) Study measures to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional
arms;

2. Invites Member States to provide the Secretary-General with relevant
information on national control measures on arms transfers with a view to
preventing illicit arms transfers, and, in this context, to take immediate,
appropriate and effective measures to seek to ensure that illicit transfers of
arms are discontinued;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to:

(a) Seek the views of Member States on effective ways and means of
collecting weapons illicitly transferred in interested countries, as well as on

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 48

concrete proposals concerning measures at national, regional and international
levels to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional arms;

(b) Study, within the existing resources, upon request from the concerned
Member States, the possibilities of the collection of weapons illicitly
transferred in the light of the experience gained by the United Nations and the
views expressed by Member States and to submit a report on the result of his
study to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its fiftieth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Measures to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional
arms".

N

Regional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 45/58 P of 4 December 1990, 46/36 I of
6 December 1991, 47/52 J of 9 December 1992 and 48/75 I of 16 December 1993 on
regional disarmament,

Believing that the efforts of the international community to move towards
the ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human
desire for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war and
the release of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful pursuits,

Affirming the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in the conduct of
their international relations,

Noting that essential guidelines for progress towards general and complete
disarmament were adopted at the tenth special session of the General
Assembly, 37/

Noting also the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to
disarmament within the context of global security adopted by the Disarmament
Commission at its 1993 substantive session, 38/

Welcoming the prospects of genuine progress in the field of disarmament
engendered in recent years as a result of negotiations between the two
super-Powers,

37/ Resolution S-10/2.

38/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42), annex II.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 49

Taking note of the recent proposals for disarmament and nuclear
non-proliferation at the regional and subregional levels,

Recognizing the importance of confidence-building measures for regional and
international peace and security,

Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament,
taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in
accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of
armaments, would enhance the security of smaller States and would thus
contribute to international peace and security by reducing the risk of regional
conflicts,

1. Stresses that sustained efforts are needed, within the framework of
the Conference on Disarmament and under the umbrella of the United Nations, to
make progress on the entire range of disarmament issues;

2. Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament complement
each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to promote regional
and international peace and security;

3. Calls upon States to conclude agreements, wherever possible, for
nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and confidence-building measures at
regional and subregional levels;

4. Welcomes the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear
non-proliferation and security undertaken by some countries at the regional and
subregional levels;

5. Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building
measures at regional and subregional levels in order to ease regional tensions
and to further disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation measures at regional
and subregional levels;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Regional disarmament".

O

Conventional arms control at the regional and
subregional levels

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 48/75 J of 16 December 1993,

Recognizing the crucial role of conventional arms control in promoting
regional and international peace and security,

Convinced that conventional arms control needs to be pursued primarily in
the regional and subregional contexts since most threats to peace and security

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 50

in the post-cold-war era arise mainly among States located in the same region or
subregion,

Aware that the preservation of a balance in the defence capabilities of
States at the lowest level of armaments would contribute to peace and stability
and should be a prime objective of conventional arms control,

Desirous of promoting agreements to strengthen regional peace and security
at the lowest possible level of armaments and military forces,

Believing that militarily significant States, and States with larger
military capabilities, have a special responsibility in promoting such
agreements for regional security,

Believing also that one of the principal objectives of conventional arms
control should be to prevent the possibility of military attack launched by
surprise,

1. Decides to give urgent consideration to the issues involved in
conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament, as a first step, to consider
the formulation of principles that can serve as a framework for regional
agreements on conventional arms control, and looks forward to a report of the
Conference on this subject;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional
levels".

P

Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and nuclear disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous relevant resolutions,

Recognizing the fundamental changes that have taken place with respect to
international security, which have permitted agreements on deep reductions in
the nuclear armaments of the States possessing the largest inventories of such
weapons,

Mindful that it is the responsibility and obligation of all States to
contribute to the process of the relaxation of international tension and to the
strengthening of international peace and security,

Stressing the importance of strengthening international peace and security
through disarmament,

Emphasizing that nuclear disarmament remains one of the principal tasks of
our times,

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 51

Stressing that it is the responsibility of all States to adopt and
implement measures towards the attainment of general and complete disarmament
under effective international control,

Appreciating a number of positive developments in the field of nuclear
disarmament, in particular the Treaty between the former Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the Elimination of
Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles 39/ and the treaties on the
reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms,

Noting that there are still significant nuclear arsenals and that the
primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament, with the objective of the
elimination of nuclear weapons, rests with the nuclear-weapon States, in
particular those which possess the largest stockpiles,

Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to begin
the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and removing such weapons
from a deployed status, and bilateral agreements on the issue of de-targeting
strategic nuclear missiles,

Noting the new climate of relations between the United States of America
and the States of the former Soviet Union, which permits them to intensify their
cooperative efforts to ensure the safety, security and environmentally sound
destruction of nuclear weapons,

Noting also that the Russian Federation and the United States of America
concurred that, once the Treaty between them on the Further Reduction and
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms was ratified, they would proceed to
deactivate all strategic delivery systems to be reduced under the Treaty by
removing their nuclear warheads or taking other steps to remove them from alert
status,

Noting further the agreement between the Russian Federation and the United
States of America to intensify their dialogue to compare conceptual approaches
and to develop concrete steps to adapt the nuclear forces and practices on both
sides to the changed international security situation, including the
possibility, after ratification of the Treaty on the Further Reduction and
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, of further reductions of and limitations
on remaining nuclear forces,

Urging the further intensification of such efforts to accelerate the
implementation of agreements and unilateral decisions relating to nuclear-arms
reduction,

Welcoming the reduction made by other nuclear-weapon States in some of
their nuclear-weapon programmes, and encouraging all nuclear-weapon States to
consider appropriate measures relating to nuclear disarmament,

39/ The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 12: 1987 (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.88.IX.2), appendix VII.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 52

Affirming that bilateral and multilateral negotiations on nuclear
disarmament should facilitate and complement each other,

1. Welcomes the actions taken towards the ratification of the Treaty
between the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed in
Moscow on 31 July 1991, and the protocol to that Treaty signed at Lisbon on
23 May 1992 by the parties thereto, inter alia, the trilateral statement by the
Presidents of the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the United States of America
signed on 14 January 1994, 40/ and urges the parties to take the necessary
steps to ensure the Treaty’s entry into force at the earliest possible date;

2. Also welcomes the signing of the Treaty between the Government of the
Russian Federation and the Government of the United States of America on the
Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms in Moscow on
3 January 1993, and urges the parties to take the steps necessary to bring that
Treaty into force by the earliest possible date;

3. Expresses its satisfaction at the continuing implementation of the
Treaty on the Elimination of Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, 39/
in particular at the completion by the parties of the destruction of all their
declared missiles subject to elimination under the Treaty;

4. Encourages the United States of America, the Russian Federation,
Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine to continue their cooperative efforts aimed at
eliminating nuclear weapons and strategic offensive arms on the basis of
existing agreements, and welcomes the contributions that other States are making
to such cooperation as well;

5. Welcomes the accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons 41/ of Belarus and Kazakhstan as non-nuclear-weapon States
and would welcome similar action on the part of Ukraine;

6. Encourages and supports the Russian Federation and the United States
of America in their efforts to reduce their nuclear armaments and to continue to
give those efforts the highest priority in order to contribute to the objective
of the elimination of nuclear weapons;

7. Invites the Russian Federation and the United States of America to
keep other States Members of the United Nations duly informed of progress in
their discussions and in the implementation of their strategic offensive arms
agreements and unilateral decisions.

* * *

61. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decision:

40/ A/49/66-S/1994/91, annex.

41/ Resolution 2373 (XXII), annex.

/...



A/49/699
English
Page 53

Non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and
of vehicles for their delivery in all its aspects

The General Assembly, recalling its resolution 48/75 C of 16 December 1993,
decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session the item
entitled "Non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of vehicles for
their delivery in all its aspects".

-----


