





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/741
2 December 1994
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 140

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE CHARTER
OF THE UNITED NATIONS AND ON THE STRENGTHENING

OF THE ROLE OF THE ORGANIZATION

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapporteur: Mrs. Silvia A. FERNANDEZ de GURMENDI (Argentina)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization" was
included in the provisional agenda of the forty-ninth session of the General
Assembly pursuant to Assembly resolution 48/36 of 9 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connection with the item, the Sixth Committee had before it the report
of the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the
Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, 1/ which was introduced by the
Chairman of the Special Committee at the 7th meeting of the Committee, on
6 October 1994. The report, inter alia, contained the text of a draft
Declaration on the Enhancement of Cooperation between the United Nations and
Regional Arrangements or Agencies in the Maintenance of International Peace and
Security, 2/ which the Special Committee was submitting to the General
Assembly for consideration and adoption.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 33 (A/49/33).

2/ Ibid., para. 89.

94-47816 (E) 051294 /...



A/49/741
English
Page 2

4. The following communications were also circulated under the item:

(a) Letter dated 29 December 1993 from the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the United Arab Emirates to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/49/56-S/26926);

(b) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting the texts of the documents
adopted by the Eleventh Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Cairo from 31 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and
Corr.1);

(c) Letter dated 17 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/49/532-
S/1994/1179);

(d) Letter dated 18 November 1994 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/C.6/49/5).

5. The Sixth Committee considered the item at its 7th to 12th, 39th and
40th meetings, on 6 and 10 to 14 October and 23 and 25 November 1994. The
summary records of those meetings contain the views of the representatives who
spoke during the Committee’s consideration of the item (A/C.6/49/SR.7-12, 39 and
40).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.12

6. At the 39th meeting, on 23 November 1994, the representative of the Russian
Federation, on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Belgium,
Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, New Zealand, Norway, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Sweden and Uzbekistan, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Declaration on the Enhancement of Cooperation between the United Nations and
Regional Arrangements or Agencies in the Maintenance of International Peace and
Security". Subsequently, Armenia, Austria, Japan, Nigeria and Portugal joined
in sponsoring the draft resolution (see para. 17, draft resolution I).

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.12
without a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution I).

8. The representatives of Mexico, Israel, Colombia, Cuba and Guatemala made
statements in explanation of position after the adoption of the draft resolution
(see A/C.6/49/SR.39 and 40).

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 3

B. Draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.3

9. The Sixth Committee had before it a draft resolution (A/C.6/49/L.3),
sponsored by Poland, later joined by Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Belize,
Bolivia, Cameroon, Chile, Costa Rica, Georgia, Guatemala, Honduras, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lithuania, the Federated States of Micronesia, Mongolia, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Panama, Papua New Guinea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania,
San Marino, Senegal, Turkey and Venezuela, which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Taking into account the fact that in 1995 the United Nations will
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization,

"Recalling that the founders of the United Nations included in the
Charter certain provisions relating to transitional security arrangements,
which are set out in Article 107 and in the relevant parts of Article 53,

"Noting that during the entire existence of the Organization those
provisions have never been invoked,

"Noting also that the States to which those provisions had been
directed are peace-loving Members of the United Nations,

"Noting further that those States represent a potential and valuable
asset in all the endeavours of the United Nations, particularly in the
maintenance of international peace and security,

"Considering that the provisions of Article 107 and parts of
Article 53 have become obsolete and have for decades had no practical
significance,

"1. Requests the Special Committee on the Charter of the United
Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, at its
session to be held in 1995, to consider, on a priority basis, the question
of the deletion of the so-called ’enemy-State’ clauses of the Charter of
the United Nations, contained in Article 107 and Article 53, paragraphs 1
and 2, and to recommend to the General Assembly the most appropriate legal
action to be taken on this question at its fiftieth session;

"2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session an item entitled ’Question of the deletion of the so-called "enemy-
State" clauses of the Charter of the United Nations, contained in
Article 107 and Article 53, paragraphs 1 and 2’."

10. At the 38th meeting, on 18 November 1994, draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.3 was
withdrawn.

11. At the 40th meeting, on 25 November 1994, the representative of Egypt, on
behalf of Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Croatia, Ecuador, Ethiopia,
Finland, Germany, Indonesia, Morocco, New Zealand, Nigeria, Poland, the Republic
of Moldova, Romania, Tunisia, Ukraine and the United Republic of Tanzania,

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 4

introduced a draft resolution entitled "Report of the Special Committee on the
Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the
Organization" (A/C.6/49/L.18). Subsequently, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Maldives, the
Federated States of Micronesia, the Philippines, Portugal, Spain and Uruguay
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution (see para. 17, draft resolution II).

12. At the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea requested a separate vote on the last preambular paragraph and on
operative paragraph 4 (c) of the draft resolution.

13. The representative of Poland, under rule 129 of the rules of procedure of
the General Assembly, objected to the motion for division.

14. The motion was rejected by a recorded vote of 103 to 3, with 7 abstentions,
as follows:

In favour: Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Sudan.

Against: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Abstaining: Benin, China, Ghana, Haiti, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Mozambique, Swaziland.

15. Draft resolution A/C.6/49/L.18 was adopted by a recorded vote of 117 to
none, with 1 abstention, as follows: 3/

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark,

3/ Subsequently, the delegation of Paraguay indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 5

Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.

16. The representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, the Sudan, Japan, China, Algeria, Cuba and the Russian Federation made
statements in explanation of vote.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

17. The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Declaration on the Enhancement of Cooperation between the United
Nations and Regional Arrangements or Agencies in the Maintenance

of International Peace and Security

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 46/58 of 9 December 1991, 47/38 of
25 November 1992 and 48/36 of 9 December 1993,

Taking note of the report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, 4/
which met in New York from 7 to 25 March 1994 and completed a draft Declaration

4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 33 (A/49/33).

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 6

on the enhancement of cooperation between the United Nations and regional
arrangements or agencies in the maintenance of international peace and security,

Convinced that the adoption of the Declaration will contribute towards
strengthening the role and enhancing the effectiveness of the United Nations and
of the regional arrangements or agencies in the maintenance of international
peace and security,

Considering the need to ensure a wide dissemination of the text of the
Declaration,

Convinced that the Declaration will be a major and specific contribution of
the Special Committee to the activities within the United Nations Decade of
International Law,

1. Approves the Declaration on the Enhancement of Cooperation between the
United Nations and Regional Arrangements or Agencies in the Maintenance of
International Peace and Security, the text of which is annexed to the present
resolution;

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Special Committee on the Charter of
the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization for
its important contribution to the elaboration of the text of the Declaration;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to inform the Governments of the States
Members of the United Nations or members of specialized agencies, the Security
Council and regional arrangements or agencies which have observer status in the
General Assembly of the adoption of the Declaration;

4. Urges that every effort be made to ensure that the Declaration becomes
generally known and fully implemented.

ANNEX

Declaration on the Enhancement of Cooperation between the United
Nations and Regional Arrangements or Agencies in the Maintenance

of International Peace and Security

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations concerning
the role of regional arrangements or agencies in the maintenance of
international peace and security, in particular the provisions of Chapter VIII
of the Charter,

Recalling also that resort to regional arrangements or agencies is among
the means referred to in Chapter VI of the Charter for the peaceful settlement
of disputes,

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 7

Recognizing that regional arrangements or agencies can play an important
role in preventive diplomacy and in enhancing regional and international
cooperation,

Recognizing also the importance of the role of regional arrangements or
agencies in dealing with such matters relating to the maintenance of
international peace and security as are appropriate for regional action,
provided that such regional arrangements or agencies and their activities are
consistent with the purposes and principles of the United Nations,

Taking into account the experience gained and the favourable results
achieved by regional arrangements or agencies in the peaceful settlement of
disputes in different parts of the world,

Bearing in mind the variety of mandates, scope and composition of regional
arrangements or agencies,

Considering that action at the regional level can contribute to the
maintenance of international peace and security,

Emphasizing that respect for the principles of sovereignty, territorial
integrity and political independence of States and non-intervention in matters
which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State is crucial
to any common endeavour to promote international peace and security,

Emphasizing also that peace-keeping activities undertaken by regional
arrangements or agencies should be conducted with the consent of the State in
the territory of which such activities are carried out,

Stressing the primary responsibility of the Security Council, under
Article 24 of the Charter, for the maintenance of international peace and
security,

Emphasizing that the efforts made by regional arrangements or agencies, in
their respective fields of competence, in cooperation with the United Nations
can usefully complement the work of the Organization in the maintenance of
international peace and security,

Stressing the need to enhance cooperation between the United Nations and
regional arrangements or agencies in the maintenance of international peace and
security,

Considering that such enhanced cooperation between the United Nations and
regional arrangements or agencies would promote collective security in
accordance with the Charter,

Solemnly declares that:

1. In accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations
concerning the role of regional arrangements or agencies in the maintenance of
international peace and security, in particular Chapter VIII of the Charter:

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 8

(a) The Members of the United Nations entering into such arrangements or
constituting such agencies shall make every effort to achieve pacific settlement
of local disputes through such regional arrangements or by such regional
agencies before referring them to the Security Council;

(b) The Security Council shall encourage the development of pacific
settlement of local disputes through such regional arrangements or by such
regional agencies either on the initiative of the States concerned or by
reference from the Security Council;

(c) The above provisions in no way impair the application of Articles 34
and 35 of the Charter;

(d) The Security Council shall, where appropriate, utilize such regional
arrangements or agencies for enforcement action under its authority, but no
enforcement action shall be taken under regional arrangements or by regional
agencies without the authorization of the Council;

(e) The Security Council shall at all times be kept fully informed of
activities undertaken or in contemplation under regional arrangements or by
regional agencies for the maintenance of international peace and security;

2. Regional arrangements or agencies can, in their fields of competence
and in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, make important
contributions to the maintenance of international peace and security, including,
where appropriate, through the peaceful settlement of disputes, preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building;

3. Cooperation between regional arrangements or agencies and the United
Nations, in the maintenance of international peace and security, may take
various forms, including, inter alia:

(a) Exchange of information and the holding of consultations at all
levels;

(b) Participation as appropriate in the work of the United Nations organs,
in accordance with the applicable rules of procedure and practices;

(c) Making available personnel, material and other assistance, where
appropriate;

4. Cooperation between regional arrangements or agencies and the United
Nations should be in accordance with their respective mandates, scope and
composition and should take place in forms that are suited to each specific
situation, in accordance with the Charter;

5. Regional efforts undertaken by regional arrangements or agencies in
the area of the maintenance of international peace and security, within their
respective fields of competence and in accordance with the purposes and
principles of the Charter, should be encouraged and, where appropriate,
supported by the Security Council;

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 9

6. States participating in regional arrangements or agencies are
encouraged to consider the possibility of increasing efforts at the regional
level for the maintenance of international peace and security in accordance with
the Charter;

7. States participating in regional arrangements or agencies are
encouraged to promote confidence-building at the regional level for the
maintenance of international peace and security;

8. States participating in regional arrangements or agencies are
encouraged to consider the possibility of using or, where appropriate,
establishing or improving at the regional level procedures and mechanisms for
the early detection, the prevention and the peaceful settlement of disputes, in
close coordination with the preventive efforts of the United Nations;

9. Regional arrangements or agencies are encouraged to consider, as
appropriate, in their fields of competence, ways and means for promoting closer
cooperation and coordination with the United Nations with the aim of
contributing to the fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the Charter,
including in the fields of preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and post-conflict
peace-building, and where appropriate, peace-keeping;

10. Regional arrangements or agencies are encouraged to consider, in their
fields of competence, the possibility of establishing and training groups of
military and civilian observers, fact-finding missions and contingents of
peace-keeping forces, for use as appropriate, in coordination with the United
Nations and, when necessary, under the authority or with the authorization of
the Security Council, in accordance with the Charter;

11. The Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations, 5/ the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of
International Disputes, 6/ the Declaration on the Enhancement of the
Effectiveness of the Principle of Refraining from the Threat or Use of Force in
International Relations, 7/ the Declaration on the Prevention and Removal of
Disputes and Situations Which May Threaten International Peace and Security and
on the Role of the United Nations in this Field 8/ and the Declaration on
Fact-finding by the United Nations in the Field of the Maintenance of
International Peace and Security 9/ are hereby reaffirmed together with their
provisions concerning the activities of regional arrangements or agencies in the
maintenance of international peace and security;

5/ General Assembly resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

6/ General Assembly resolution 37/10, annex.

7/ General Assembly resolution 42/22, annex.

8/ General Assembly resolution 43/51, annex.

9/ General Assembly resolution 46/59, annex.

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 10

12. Nothing in the present Declaration is to be construed as prejudicing
in any manner the provisions of the Charter.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of

the Organization

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3499 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, by which it
established the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on
the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, and its relevant resolutions
adopted at subsequent sessions,

Recalling also its resolution 47/233 of 17 August 1993 on the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly,

Recalling further its resolution 47/62 of 11 December 1992 on the question
of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security
Council,

Welcoming the first report of the open-ended working group on the question
of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security
Council that was established in accordance with General Assembly resolution
48/26 of 3 December 1993,

Bearing in mind the reports of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization submitted to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh, 10/
thirty-ninth, 11/ fortieth, 12/ forty-first, 13/ forty-second, 14/
forty-third, 15/ forty-fourth, 16/ forty-fifth, 17/ forty-sixth, 18/

10/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 1 (A/37/1).

11/ Ibid., Thirty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/39/1).

12/ Ibid., Fortieth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/40/1).

13/ Ibid., Forty-first Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/41/1).

14/ Ibid., Forty-second Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/42/1).

15/ Ibid., Forty-third Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/43/1).

16/ Ibid., Forty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/44/1).

17/ Ibid., Forty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/45/1).

18/ Ibid., Forty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/46/1).



A/49/741
English
Page 11

forty-seventh, 19/ forty-eighth, 20/ and forty-ninth 21/ sessions, as
well as the views and comments expressed on them by Member States,

Recalling the elements relevant to the work of the Special Committee on the
Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the
Organization contained in its resolution 47/120 B of 20 September 1993,

Noting the discussions in the Security Council towards strengthening the
consultative process in accordance with Article 50 of the Charter with a view to
minimizing special economic problems of countries adversely affected as a result
of their implementation of preventive or enforcement measures under Chapter VII
of the Charter,

Mindful of the desirability for the Special Committee to carry out further
work in the fields of the maintenance of international peace and security and
the peaceful settlement of disputes between States,

Bearing in mind various proposals submitted to the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session aimed at strengthening the role of the Organization,
enhancing its effectiveness and achieving equitable representation in the
Security Council and increasing its membership,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee on the work of its
session held in 1994, 22/

Expresses its appreciation to the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization for its
important contribution to the elaboration of the text of the Declaration on the
Enhancement of Cooperation between the United Nations and Regional Arrangements
or Agencies in the Maintenance of International Peace and Security,

Recalling that the Charter of the United Nations contains references in
Article 53 and Article 107 to particular security arrangements concerning
certain States,

Noting that the States to which those references have been directed are
members of the United Nations and represent a valuable asset in all the
endeavours of the Organization,

Considering that the provisions of Article 107 and parts of Article 53 have
become obsolete,

19/ Ibid., Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/47/1).

20/ Ibid., Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/48/1).

21/ Ibid., Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/49/1).

22/ Ibid., Supplement No. 33 (A/49/33).

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 12

1. Takes note of the report of the Special Committee on the Charter of
the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization; 22/

2. Decides that the Special Committee will hold its next session from
27 February to 10 March 1995;

3. Invites the Secretary-General to submit, before the session of the
Committee in 1995, a report on the question of the implementation of the
provisions of the Charter, including Article 50, related to the special economic
problems confronting States and arising from the carrying out of sanctions
mandated under Chapter VII of the Charter, analysing the proposals and
suggestions on this issue contained in the report of the Committee on its 1994
session, 13/ giving due attention to the possible practical ways and means of
carrying any of them out;

4. Requests the Special Committee, at its session in 1995, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 5 below:

(a) To accord appropriate time for the consideration of all proposals
concerning the question of the maintenance of international peace and security
in all its aspects in order to strengthen the role of the United Nations and, in
this context:

(i) To continue to consider on a priority basis proposals on the
implementation of the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations
related to assistance to third States affected by the application of
sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter, including the working
paper submitted in this regard to the Special Committee during its
last session; 23/

(ii) To consider other specific proposals relating to the maintenance of
international peace and security already submitted or which might be
submitted to the Special Committee at its session in 1995, including
the proposal on the strengthening of the role of the Organization and
enhancement of its efficiency and the revised proposal submitted with
a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the Security Council with
regard to the maintenance of international peace and security;

(b) To continue its work on the question of the peaceful settlement of
disputes between States and in this context:

(i) To continue its consideration of the proposal on United Nations rules
for the conciliation of disputes between States;

(ii) To continue its consideration of other specific proposals relating to
the peaceful settlement of disputes between States, including the
proposal on the establishment of a dispute settlement service offering
or responding with its services early in dispute and those proposals

23/ A/AC.182/L.79.

/...



A/49/741
English
Page 13

relating to the enhancement of the role of the International Court of
Justice;

(c) To consider the question of the deletion of the "enemy-State" clauses
of the Charter of the United Nations, contained in Article 107 and Article 53,
paragraphs 1 and 2, and to recommend to the General Assembly at its fiftieth
session the most appropriate legal action to be taken on this question;

(d) To continue its consideration of the question of the enhancement of
cooperation between the United Nations and regional arrangements or agencies in
the maintenance of international peace and security;

5. Also requests the Special Committee to be mindful of the importance of
reaching general agreement whenever this has significance for the outcome of its
work;

6. Decides that the Special Committee shall continue to accept the
participation of observers of Member States in its meetings, including those of
its Working Group, and also decides that the Special Committee shall be
authorized to invite other States or intergovernmental organizations to
participate in the debate in its plenary meetings on specific items where it
considers that such participation would assist in its work;

7. Requests the Special Committee at its next session to continue its
review of its membership, to consider in particular the proposal on the full
participation of all Member States in its work and to report on this matter to
the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

8. Also requests the Special Committee to submit a report on its work to
the General Assembly at the fiftieth session;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the United
Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization".

-----


