





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/706
28 November 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 69

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE INDIAN
OCEAN AS A ZONE OF PEACE

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Peter GOOSEN (South Africa)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as
a Zone of Peace" was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-ninth
session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 48/82 of
16 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to
it, namely, items 53 to 66, 68 to 72 and 153. The deliberations on those items
took place at the 3rd to 10th meetings, from 17 to 24 October (see
A/C.1/49/PV.3-10). Structured discussions of specific subjects on the adopted
thematic approach took place from 25 to 27 and on 31 October and 1 November.
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 12th to
16th meetings, on 3, 4, 7 and 9 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.12-16). Action on
draft resolutions on those items took place at the 19th to 25th meetings, from
14 to 18 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.19-25).

94-46944 (E) 011294 /...



A/49/706
English
Page 2

4. In connection with item 69, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean; 1/

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on implementation of the Declaration
of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace (A/49/203 and Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1);

(c) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt to the Secretary-General transmitting the texts of the documents adopted
by the Eleventh Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Cairo from 31 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and Corr.1);

(d) Letter dated 17 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/49/532-S/1994/1179).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/49/L.37

5. On 3 November, Indonesia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace" (A/C.1/49/L.37). The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Sri Lanka at the 14th meeting, on 7 November.

6. At its 20th meeting on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.37 by a recorded vote of 107 to 3, with 34 abstentions (see para. 7).
The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cöte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Russian

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 29 (A/49/29).

2/ Subsequently, the delegation of Djibouti indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/706
English
Page 3

Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Turkey.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace

The General Assembly,

Recalling the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace, contained
in its resolution 2832 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, and recalling also its
resolution 48/82 of 16 December 1993 and other relevant resolutions,

Recalling also the report of the Meeting of the Littoral and Hinterland
States of the Indian Ocean held in July 1979, 3/

Noting that the emerging international climate of confidence, trust and
cooperation has been further enhanced by significant new developments in the
Indian Ocean region, including the establishment of the democratic, non-racial
Government of South Africa, as well as encouraging developments in the Middle
East,

Welcoming these positive developments, which have been reflected in the
work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean as providing favourable
opportunities to pursue global and regional cooperation in the Indian Ocean
region,

3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 45 and corrigendum (A/34/45 and Corr.1).

/...



A/49/706
English
Page 4

Having further considered new alternative approaches in the Ad Hoc
Committee with a view to reaching early agreement to give new impetus to the
process of strengthening cooperation and ensuring peace, security and stability
in the Indian Ocean region,

Considering that confidence-building measures at different regional levels,
building incrementally on cooperation among various regional and other parties,
as appropriate, on specific issues, have made an important contribution to the
attainment of the goals of peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean
region and that they should be pursued further,

Emphasizing the need for the permanent members of the Security Council and
the major maritime users of the Indian Ocean to cooperate with and participate
in the work of the Ad Hoc Committee, particularly at a time when the Committee
is actively engaged in the task of developing new alternative approaches,

1. Takes note of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian
Ocean; 4/

2. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to continue its elaboration of new
alternative approaches, including those discussed during the session held in
1994, with a view to giving new impetus to the process of strengthening
cooperation and ensuring peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean
region;

3. Notes that the entry into force in November 1994 of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea 5/ would enhance prospects for mutually
accommodative measures of cooperation on a regional as well as global basis,
including the freedom of the high seas, in conformity with the Convention;

4. Reiterates its conviction that the participation of all permanent
members of the Security Council as well as major maritime users in the work of
the Ad Hoc Committee is important and would greatly facilitate development of a
mutually beneficial dialogue to advance peace, security and stability in the
Indian Ocean region;

5. Requests the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee to apprise the
Governments of the permanent members of the Security Council concerned and the
major maritime users of the progress of work in the Committee, and to consult
with them in order to encourage their renewed participation and cooperation in
the work of the Committee;

6. Recalls the general recognition of the need to pursue both global and
regional efforts in a complementary way, bearing in mind that the States of the
region could provide their own specific constructive contribution to the

4/ Ibid., Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 29 (A/49/29).

5/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), p. 151.

/...



A/49/706
English
Page 5

strengthening of peace, security, stability and cooperation in the Indian Ocean
region;

7. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to hold a session during 1995, of a
duration of not more than five working days;

8. Also requests the Ad Hoc Committee to submit to the General Assembly
at its fiftieth session a report on the implementation of the present
resolution;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to render all necessary
assistance to the Ad Hoc Committee, including the provision of summary records;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a
Zone of Peace".

-----


