





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/887
10 April 1995

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda items 8 and 97

ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION OF WORK

ADVANCEMENT OF WOMEN

Note by the Secretary-General

1. In its resolution 45/129 of 14 December 1990 and again in its resolution
46/98 of 16 December 1991, the General Assembly endorsed Economic and Social
Council resolution 1990/12 of 24 May 1990, in which the Council recommended that
a world conference on women should be held in 1995, and requested that the
Commission on the Status of Women act as the preparatory body for the
conference.

2. At its thirty-ninth session, held at United Nations Headquarters from
15 March to 7 April 1995, the Commission on the Status of Women, as the
preparatory body for the Fourth World Conference on Women: Action for Equality,
Development and Peace, decided to recommend to the General Assembly the adoption
of a draft resolution entitled "Accreditation of non-governmental organizations
to the Fourth World Conference on Women". The draft resolution is reproduced in
annex I to the present note.

3. At the same session, the Commission on the Status of Women, as the
preparatory body for the Conference, approved the provisional rules of procedure
of the Fourth World Conference on Women: Action for Equality, Development and
Peace, and recommended their adoption by the General Assembly. The provisional
rules of procedure are reproduced in annex II to the present note.

4. So that the General Assembly may take the required action, it will be
necessary to reopen consideration of agenda item 97, entitled "Advancement of
Women".

95-10428 (E) 120495 /...



A/49/887
English
Page 2

ANNEX I

Draft resolution

Accreditation of non-governmental organizations to the Fourth
World Conference on Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1296 (XLIV) of
23 May 1968, on arrangements for consultation with non-governmental
organizations,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1987/20 of
26 May 1987, in which the Council decided that the Commission on the Status of
Women should be designated as the preparatory body for world conferences on
women,

Recalling further resolution 37/7 of the Commission on the Status of Women,
concerning preparations for the Fourth World Conference on Women: Action for
Equality, Development and Peace,

Recalling General Assembly resolution 48/108 of 20 December 1993, in which
the Assembly adopted modalities for participation in and contributions to the
World Conference on Women and its preparatory process by non-governmental
organizations,

Emphasizing that the rules for accreditation of non-governmental
organizations to the Conference, contained in the annex to General Assembly
resolution 48/108, should be applied transparently and fairly,

Reaffirming the importance of participation by non-governmental
organizations in the Conference and its preparatory process,

Noting that there is need for more time and opportunity for many
non-governmental organizations to clarify their qualifications for accreditation
to the Conference,

1. Requests the secretariat of the Fourth World Conference on Women to
communicate immediately in writing with each non-governmental organization that,
by 15 March 1995, had applied for accreditation to the Conference but had not
yet been accredited, listing the reasons why the secretariat had not forwarded
the name of the organization to the Commission on the Status of Women for
accreditation;

2. Also requests the secretariat of the Conference to invite those
non-governmental organizations referred to in operative paragraphs 1 and 4 to
submit, within four weeks of the date of transmittal of the secretariat’s
written communication, further relevant information concerning their
qualifications for accreditation;

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 3

3. Requests that the secretariat of the Conference be responsible for the
receipt and evaluation, in accordance with the provisions of the annex to
General Assembly resolution 48/108, of all previously supplied information, as
well as that submitted by non-governmental organizations under the terms of
operative paragraph 2;

4. Requests the secretariat of the Conference to extend the deadline for
application for accreditation by non-governmental organizations until
28 April 1995 and to continue to consider applications received by that date,
and to ensure that those applications are considered in a transparent manner,
applying the criteria set forth in resolution 48/108;

5. Also requests the secretariat of the Conference, prior to the
convening of the substantive session of 1995 of the Economic and Social Council,
to prepare a list of those non-governmental organizations from operative
paragraphs 1 and 4 that, considering all available information, appear to have
met the criteria set out in General Assembly resolution 48/108 for accreditation
to the Fourth World Conference on Women;

6. Further requests the secretariat of the Conference to provide a list
of those non-governmental organizations from operative paragraphs 1 and 4 that
the secretariat does not recommend for accreditation, together with the reasons
for non-recommendation, to all members of the Economic and Social Council no
later than one week prior to the substantive session of 1995 of the Council;

7. Authorizes the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session
of 1995 to decide on all pending proposals for accreditation of non-governmental
organizations;

8. Requests the secretariat of the Conference, after the final
consideration by the Economic and Social Council of the non-governmental
organizations from operative paragraphs 1 and 4, promptly to notify those
organizations of the final determination by the Council.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 4

ANNEX II

Provisional rules of procedure of the Fourth World Conference on
Women: Action for Equality, Development and Peace

CONTENTS

Page

I. REPRESENTATION AND CREDENTIALS .................................. 5

II. OFFICERS ........................................................ 6

III. GENERAL COMMITTEE ............................................... 6

IV. SECRETARIAT OF THE CONFERENCE ................................... 7

V. OPENING OF THE CONFERENCE ....................................... 8

VI. CONCLUSIONS OF THE CONFERENCE ................................... 9

VII. CONDUCT OF BUSINESS ............................................. 9

VIII. DECISION-MAKING ................................................. 13

IX. SUBSIDIARY BODIES ............................................... 16

X. LANGUAGES AND RECORDS ........................................... 17

XI. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE MEETINGS ..................................... 18

XII. OTHER PARTICIPANTS AND OBSERVERS ................................ 19

XIII. AMENDMENT AND SUSPENSION OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE .............. 21



A/49/887
English
Page 5

I. REPRESENTATION AND CREDENTIALS

Composition of delegations

Rule 1

The delegation of each State participating in the Conference and of the
European Community shall consist of a head of delegation and such other
representatives, alternate representatives and advisers as may be required.

Alternates and advisers

Rule 2

The head of delegation may designate an alternate representative or an
adviser to act as a representative.

Credentials

Rule 3

The credentials of representatives and the names of alternate
representatives and advisers shall be submitted to the Secretary-General of the
Conference, if possible not less than one week before the opening of the
Conference. The credentials shall be issued either by the Head of the State or
Government or by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or, in the case of the
European Community, by the President of the European Commission.

Credentials Committee

Rule 4

A Credentials Committee of nine members shall be appointed at the beginning
of the Conference. Its composition shall be based on that of the Credentials
Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-ninth
session. It shall examine the credentials of representatives and report to the
Conference without delay.

Provisional participation

Rule 5

Pending a decision of the Conference upon their credentials,
representatives shall be entitled to participate provisionally in the
Conference.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 6

II. OFFICERS

Elections

Rule 6

The Conference shall elect from among the representatives of participating
States the following officers: a President, 27 Vice-Presidents and an
ex-officio Vice-President from the host country, a Rapporteur-General, and the
Chairpersons of the Main Committees established in accordance with rule 47.
These officials shall be elected on the basis of ensuring the representative
character of the General Committee composed in accordance with rule 10. The
Conference may also elect such other officers as it deems necessary for the
performance of its functions.

Acting President

Rule 7

1. If the President finds it necessary to be absent from a meeting or any part
thereof, he/she shall designate a Vice-President to take his/her place.

2. A Vice-President acting as President shall have the same powers and duties
as the President.

Replacement of the President

Rule 8

If the President is unable to perform his/her functions, a new President
shall be elected.

Voting rights of the President

Rule 9

The President, or a Vice-President acting as President, shall not vote, but
shall appoint another member of his/her delegation to vote in his/her place.

III. GENERAL COMMITTEE

Composition

Rule 10

The President, the Vice-Presidents, the Rapporteur-General of the
Conference and the Chairpersons of the Main Committees shall constitute the
General Committee. The President of the Conference, or in his/her absence, one
of the Vice-Presidents designated by him/her, shall serve as Chairperson of the

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 7

General Committee. The Chairperson of the Credentials Committee may
participate, without the right to vote, in the General Committee.

Substitute members

Rule 11

If the President or a Vice-President of the Conference is to be absent
during a meeting of the General Committee, he/she may designate a member of
his/her delegation to sit and vote in the Committee. In the case of absence,
the Chairperson of a Main Committee shall designate a Vice-Chairperson of that
Committee as his/her substitute. When serving on the General Committee, a
Vice-Chairperson of a Main Committee shall not have the right to vote if he/she
is of the same delegation as another member of the General Committee.

Functions

Rule 12

The General Committee shall assist the President in the general conduct of
the business of the Conference and, subject to the decisions of the Conference,
shall ensure the coordination of its work.

IV. SECRETARIAT OF THE CONFERENCE

Duties of the Secretary-General

Rule 13

1. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, or in his absence, the
Secretary-General of the Conference shall act in that capacity in all meetings
of the Conference and its subsidiary bodies. The Secretary-General of the
United Nations or the Secretary-General of the Conference may designate a member
of the secretariat to act in his/her place at those meetings.

2. The Secretary-General of the Conference shall direct the staff required by
the Conference.

Duties of the secretariat

Rule 14

The secretariat of the Conference shall, in accordance with these rules:

(a) Interpret speeches made at meetings;

(b) Make and arrange for the keeping of sound recordings of meetings;

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 8

(c) Receive, translate and circulate the documents of the Conference;

(d) Report the proceedings of the Conference in appropriate journals;

(e) Publish and circulate the report and any official records of the
Conference;

(f) Arrange for the custody of the documents and records of the Conference
in the archives of the United Nations;

(g) Generally perform all other work that the Conference may require in
connection with its proceedings.

Statements by the secretariat

Rule 15

The Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary-General of the
Conference or any member of the secretariat designated by either for that
purpose may, subject to rule 22, make statements concerning any question under
consideration.

V. OPENING OF THE CONFERENCE

Temporary President

Rule 16

At the opening of the first meeting of the Conference, the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, or in his absence, the Secretary-General of the
Conference shall preside until the Conference has elected its President.

Decisions concerning organization

Rule 17

The Conference shall, to the extent possible, at its first meeting:

(a) Adopt its rules of procedure;

(b) Elect its officers and constitute its subsidiary bodies;

(c) Adopt its agenda, the draft of which shall, until such adoption, be
the provisional agenda of the Conference;

(d) Decide on the organization of its work.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 9

VI. CONCLUSIONS OF THE CONFERENCE

Report

Rule 18

The Conference shall adopt a report, the draft of which shall be prepared
by the Rapporteur-General.

VII. CONDUCT OF BUSINESS

Quorum

Rule 19

The President may declare a meeting open and permit the debate to proceed
when at least one third of the representatives of States participating in the
Conference are present. The presence of representatives of a majority of such
States shall be required for any decision to be taken.

General powers of the President

Rule 20

1. In addition to exercising the powers conferred upon him/her elsewhere by
these rules, the President shall preside at the plenary meetings of the
Conference; he/she shall declare the opening and closing of each meeting, direct
the discussions, ensure observance of these rules, accord the right to speak,
put questions to the vote and announce decisions. He/she shall rule on points
of order. The President, subject to these rules, shall have complete control of
the proceedings and over the maintenance of order thereat. The President may
propose to the Conference the closing of the list of speakers, a limitation on
the time to be allowed to speakers and on the number of times the representative
of each participant in the Conference may speak on a question, the adjournment
or the closure of the debate and the suspension or the adjournment of a meeting.

2. The President, in the exercise of his/her functions, remains under the
authority of the Conference.

Points of order

Rule 21

During the discussion of any matter, a representative may at any time raise
a point of order, which shall be immediately decided by the President in
accordance with these rules. A representative may appeal against the ruling of
the President. The appeal shall be immediately put to the vote, and the
President’s ruling shall stand unless overruled by a majority of the

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 10

representatives present and voting. A representative may not, in raising a
point of order, speak on the substance of the matter under discussion.

Speeches

Rule 22

1. No one may address the Conference without having previously obtained the
permission of the President. Subject to rules 21, 23 and 25 to 28, the
President shall call upon speakers in the order in which they signify their
desire to speak.

2. Debate shall be confined to the question before the Conference and the
President may call a speaker to order if his/her remarks are not relevant to the
subject under discussion.

3. The Conference may limit the time allowed to speakers and the number of
times participants may speak on a question. Permission to speak on a motion to
set such limits shall be accorded to only two representatives in favour of and
two opposing such limits, after which the motion shall be immediately put to the
vote. In any event, with the consent of the Conference, the President shall
limit each intervention on procedural matters to five minutes. When the debate
is limited and a speaker exceeds the allotted time, the President shall call
him/her to order without delay.

Precedence

Rule 23

The Chairperson or Rapporteur of a Main Committee or a representative
designated by any other subsidiary body may be accorded precedence for the
purpose of explaining the conclusions arrived at by the body concerned.

Closing of the list of speakers

Rule 24

During the course of a debate, the President may announce the list of
speakers and, with the consent of the Conference, declare the list closed. When
there are no more speakers, the President shall, with the consent of the
Conference, declare the debate closed. Such closure shall have the same effect
as closure pursuant to rule 27.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 11

Right of reply

Rule 25

Notwithstanding rule 24, the President shall accord the right of reply to a
representative of any State participating in the Conference or of the European
Community who requests it. Any other representative may be granted the
opportunity to make a reply. Representatives should attempt, in making such
statements, to be as brief as possible and preferably to deliver their
statements at the end of the meeting at which the request is made. The
representatives of a State or of the European Community may make no more than
two statements under this rule at a given meeting on any item. The first shall
be limited to five minutes and the second to three minutes; representatives
shall in any event attempt to be as brief as possible.

Adjournment of debate

Rule 26

A representative of any State participating in the Conference may at any
time move the adjournment of the debate on the question under discussion.
Permission to speak on the motion shall be accorded to only two representatives
in favour of and two opposing the adjournment, after which the motion shall,
subject to rule 29, be immediately put to the vote.

Closure of debate

Rule 27

A representative of any State participating in the Conference may at any
time move the closure of the debate on the question under discussion, whether or
not any other representative has signified his/her wish to speak. In addition
to the proposer of the motion, permission to speak on the motion shall be
accorded to only two representatives opposing the closure, after which the
motion shall, subject to rule 29, be immediately put to the vote.

Suspension or adjournment of the meeting

Rule 28

Subject to rule 40, a representative of any State participating in the
Conference may at any time move the suspension or the adjournment of the
meeting. No discussion on such motions shall be permitted and they shall,
subject to rule 29, be immediately put to the vote.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 12

Order of motions

Rule 29

The motions indicated below shall have precedence in the following order
over all proposals or other motions before the meeting:

(a) To suspend the meeting;

(b) To adjourn the meeting;

(c) To adjourn the debate on the question under discussion;

(d) To close the debate on the question under discussion.

Submissions of proposals and substantive amendments

Rule 30

Proposals and substantive amendments shall normally be submitted in writing
to the Secretary-General of the Conference, who shall circulate copies to all
delegations. Unless the Conference decides otherwise, substantive proposals
shall be discussed or put to a decision no earlier than 24 hours after copies
have been circulated in all languages of the Conference to all delegations. The
President may, however, permit the discussion and consideration of amendments,
or of motions as to procedure, even though such amendments and motions have not
been circulated or have only been circulated the same day.

Withdrawal of proposals and motions

Rule 31

A proposal or a motion may be withdrawn by its sponsor at any time before
voting on it has commenced, provided that it has not been amended. A proposal
or a motion thus withdrawn may be reintroduced by any representative.

Decisions on competence

Rule 32

Any motion calling for a decision on the competence of the Conference to
discuss any matter or adopt a proposal submitted to it shall be put to the vote
before the matter is discussed or a vote is taken on the proposal in question.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 13

Reconsideration of proposals

Rule 33

When a proposal has been adopted or rejected, it may not be reconsidered
unless the Conference, by a two-thirds majority of the representatives present
and voting, so decides. Permission to speak on a motion to reconsider shall be
accorded to only two speakers opposing reconsideration, after which the motion
shall be immediately put to the vote.

VIII. DECISION-MAKING

General agreement

Rule 34

The Conference shall exert all possible efforts to ensure that its work and
the adoption of its report are accomplished by general agreement.

Voting rights

Rule 35

Each State participating in the Conference shall have one vote.

Majority required

Rule 36

If the question arises whether a matter is one of procedure or of
substance, the President of the Conference shall rule on the question. An
appeal against this ruling shall be put to the vote immediately, and the
President’s ruling shall stand unless overruled by a majority of the
representatives present and voting.

Meaning of the phrase "representatives present and voting"

Rule 37

For the purpose of these rules, the phrase "representatives present and
voting" means representatives casting an affirmative or negative vote.
Representatives who abstain from voting shall be regarded as not voting.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 14

Method of voting

Rule 38

1. Except as provided in rule 45, the Conference shall normally vote by show
of hands, except that a representative may request a roll-call, which shall then
be taken in the English alphabetical order of the names of the States
participating in the Conference, beginning with the delegation whose name is
drawn by lot by the President. The name of each State shall be called in all
roll-calls and its representative shall reply "yes", "no" or "abstention".

2. When the Conference votes by mechanical means, a non-recorded vote shall
replace a vote by show of hands and a recorded vote shall replace a roll-call.
A representative may request a recorded vote, which shall, unless a
representative requests otherwise, be taken without calling out the names of the
States participating in the Conference.

3. The vote of each State participating in a roll-call or a recorded vote
shall be inserted in any record of or report on the Conference.

Explanation of vote

Rule 39

Representatives may make brief statements consisting solely of explanations
of vote, before the voting has commenced or after the voting has been completed.
The President may limit the time to be allowed for such explanations. The
representative of a State sponsoring a proposal or motion shall not speak in
explanation of vote thereon, except if it has been amended.

Conduct during voting

Rule 40

After the President has announced the commencement of voting, no
representative shall interrupt the voting except on a point of order in
connection with the process of voting.

Division of proposals

Rule 41

A representative may move that parts of a proposal be voted on separately.
If a representative objects, the motion for division shall be voted upon.
Permission to speak on the motion shall be accorded to only two representatives
in favour of and two opposing the division. If the motion is carried, those
parts of the proposal that are subsequently approved shall be put to the vote as
a whole. If all operative parts of the proposal have been rejected, the
proposal shall be considered to have been rejected as a whole.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 15

Amendments

Rule 42

A proposal is considered an amendment to another proposal if it merely adds
to, deletes from or revises part of that proposal. Unless specified otherwise,
the word "proposal" in these rules shall be considered as including amendments.

Order of voting on amendments

Rule 43

When an amendment is moved to a proposal, the amendment shall be voted on
first. When two or more amendments are moved to a proposal, the Conference
shall vote first on the amendment furthest removed in substance from the
original proposal and then on the amendment next furthest removed therefrom and
so on until all the amendments have been put to the vote. Where, however, the
adoption of one amendment necessarily implies the rejection of another
amendment, the latter shall not be put to the vote. If one or more amendments
are adopted, the amended proposal shall then be voted upon.

Order of voting on proposals

Rule 44

1. If two or more proposals, other than amendments, relate to the same
question, they shall, unless the Conference decides otherwise, be voted on in
the order in which they were submitted. The Conference may, after each vote on
a proposal, decide whether to vote on the next proposal.

2. Revised proposals shall be voted on in the order in which the original
proposals were submitted, unless the revision substantially departs from the
original proposal. In that case the original proposal shall be considered as
withdrawn and the revised proposal shall be treated as a new proposal.

3. A motion requiring that no decision be taken on a proposal shall be put to
the vote before a vote is taken on the proposal in question.

Elections

Rule 45

All elections shall be held by secret ballot unless, in the absence of any
objection, the Conference decides to proceed without taking a ballot when there
is an agreed candidate or slate.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 16

Rule 46

1. When one or more elective places are to be filled at one time under the
same conditions, those candidates, in a number not exceeding the number of such
places, obtaining in the first ballot a majority of the votes cast and the
largest number of votes shall be elected.

2. If the number of candidates obtaining such a majority is less than the
number of places to be filled, additional ballots shall be held to fill the
remaining places, the voting being restricted to the candidates obtaining the
largest number of votes in the previous ballot, in a number not exceeding twice
the number of places remaining to be filled.

IX. SUBSIDIARY BODIES

Main Committees

Rule 47

The Conference shall establish one or more Main Committees, which may set
up subcommittees or working groups. Each Main Committee, unless it decides
otherwise, shall elect three Vice-Chairpersons and a Rapporteur.

Representation on the Main Committees

Rule 48

Each State participating and the European Community may be represented by
one representative on each Main Committee established by the Conference. It may
assign to these Committees such alternate representatives and advisers as may be
required.

Other committees and working groups

Rule 49

1. In addition to the Committees referred to above, the Conference may
establish such committees and working groups as it deems necessary for the
performance of its functions.

2. Each committee may set up subcommittees and working groups.

Quorum

Rule 50

1. The Chairperson of a Main Committee may declare a meeting open and permit
the debate to proceed when representatives of at least one quarter of the States

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 17

participating in the Conference are present. The presence of representatives of
a majority of the States so participating shall be required for any decision to
be taken.

2. A majority of the representatives of the General or Credentials Committee
or of any committee, subcommittee or working group shall constitute a quorum.

Officers, conduct of business and voting

Rule 51

These rules of procedure shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the proceedings
of Main Committees, subcommittees and working groups, except that:

(a) Unless otherwise decided, each committee, subcommittee and working
group shall elect its own officers;

(b) The Chairpersons of the General and Credentials Committees, and the
chairmen of the committees, subcommittees and working groups established in
accordance with rule 49, may exercise the right to vote;

(c) Decisions of the Main Committees, other committees, subcommittees and
working groups shall be taken by a majority of the representatives present and
voting, except that the reconsideration of a proposal or an amendment shall
require the majority established by rule 33.

X. LANGUAGES AND RECORDS

Languages of the Conference

Rule 52

Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish shall be the
languages of the Conference.

Interpretation

Rule 53

1. Speeches made in a language of the Conference shall be interpreted into the
other such languages.

2. A representative may speak in a language other than a language of the
Conference if he/she provides for interpretation into one such language.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 18

Languages of documents, resolutions and other formal decisions

Rule 54

All official documents, resolutions and other formal decisions of the
Conference shall be published in the languages of the Conference.

Languages of reports

Rule 55

Any reports submitted by the General Committee, the Credentials Committee
or a Main Committee established in accordance with rule 47, as well as the
report of the Conference referred to in rule 18, shall be published in the
languages of the Conference.

Records of meetings

Rule 56

1. There shall be neither verbatim nor summary records of meetings.

2. Sound recordings of meetings of the Conference and of Main Committees shall
be made and kept in accordance with the practice of the United Nations. Unless
otherwise decided by the Conference or a Main Committee, no such recordings
shall be made of the meetings of any working group thereof.

XI. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE MEETINGS

General principles

Rule 57

1. The plenary meetings of the Conference and the meetings of a Main Committee
shall be held in public unless the body concerned decides otherwise.

2. As a general rule, meetings of other bodies of the Conference shall be held
in private. All decisions taken by the plenary of the Conference at a private
meeting shall be announced at an early public meeting of the plenary.

Communiqués on private meetings

Rule 58

At the close of a private meeting, the body concerned may issue a
communiqué through the Secretary-General of the Conference.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 19

XII. OTHER PARTICIPANTS AND OBSERVERS

Representatives of organizations that have received a standing
invitation from the General Assembly to participate in the
capacity of observer in the sessions and work of all
international conferences convened under the auspices of

the General Assembly

Rule 59

Representatives designated by organizations that have received a standing
invitation from the General Assembly to participate in the sessions and work of
all international conferences convened under the auspices of the General
Assembly have the right to participate as observers, without the right to vote,
in the deliberations of the Conference, its Main Committees and, as appropriate,
any other committee or working group.

Associate members of regional commissions

Rule 60

Representatives designated by associate members of regional commissions may
participate as observers, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the
Conference, the Main Committees and, as appropriate, any other committee or
working group.

Representatives of the specialized agencies*

Rule 61

Representatives designated by the specialized agencies may participate,
without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, its Main
Committees and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group on
questions within the scope of their activities.

Representatives of other intergovernmental organizations
and other entities

Rule 62

Save where otherwise specifically provided with respect to the European
Community in these rules of procedure, representatives designated by other

________________________

* For the purpose of these rules, the term "specialized agencies"
includes the International Atomic Energy Agency and the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade.

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 20

intergovernmental organizations and other entities invited to the Conference may
participate as observers, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of
theConference, the Main Committees and, as appropriate, any working group on
questions within the scope of their activities.

Representatives of interested United Nations organs, bodies
and relevant mechanisms

Rule 63

Representatives designated by interested organs, bodies and relevant
mechanisms of the United Nations may participate as observers, without the right
to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, its Main Committees and, as
appropriate, any other committee or working group on questions within the scope
of their activities.

Representatives of the Committee on the Elimination
of Discrimination against Women

Rule 64

Members of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women
may participate as observers in the deliberations of the Conference, its Main
Committees and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group on
questions within the scope of its activities.

Representatives of non-governmental organizations

Rule 65

1. Non-governmental organizations accredited to participate in the Conference
may designate representatives to sit as observers at public meetings of the
Conference and the Main Committees.

2. Upon the invitation of the presiding officer of the body concerned and
subject to the approval of that body, such observers may make oral statements on
questions in which they have special competence. If the number of requests to
speak is too large, the non-governmental organizations shall be requested to
form themselves into constituencies, such constituencies to speak through
spokespersons.

Written statements

Rule 66

Written statements submitted by the designated representatives referred to
in rules 59 to 65 shall be distributed by the secretariat to all delegations in
the quantities and in the language in which the statements are made available to

/...



A/49/887
English
Page 21

it at the site of the Conference, provided that a statement submitted on behalf
of a non-governmental organization is related to the work of the Conference and
is on a subject in which it has a special competence. Written statements shall
not be issued at United Nations expense and shall not be issued as official
documents.

XIII. AMENDMENT AND SUSPENSION OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE

Method of amendment

Rule 67

These rules of procedure may be amended by a decision of the Conference
taken by a two-thirds majority of the representatives present and voting, after
the General Committee has reported on the proposed amendment.

Method of suspension

Rule 68

Any of these rules may be suspended by the Conference provided that 24
hours’ notice of the proposal for the suspension has been given, which may be
waived if no representative objects. Any such suspension shall be limited to a
specific and stated purpose and to a period required to achieve that purpose.

-----


