





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/625
11 November 1994
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda items 83 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES
BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND THE INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Dieudonné NDIAYE (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-ninth session the following items:

"83. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations.

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council".

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Special Political
and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) agenda item 83, together with
chapters V (sect. C) and IX of the report of the Economic and Social
Council, 1/ which relate to the item.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 5 October 1994, the Fourth Committee decided to hold
a general debate covering agenda items 18, 81, 82, 83 and 12, and 84, on the

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/49/3/Rev.1).

94-44406 (E) 231194 /...



A/49/625
English
Page 2

understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would
be considered separately. The general debate took place at the 5th and
6th meetings, on 12 and 13 October.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

3. The Fourth Committee considered items 83 and 12 at its 2nd, 5th, 6th and
13th meetings, on 5, 12, 13 and 28 October (see A/C.4/49/SR.2, 5, 6 and 13).

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 5 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee
during 1994 and drew attention to chapter VI of the report of that Committee
relating to item 83 (A/49/23 (Part IV)) 2/ containing, inter alia, the related
draft resolution submitted by the Special Committee for the consideration of the
Fourth Committee.

5. During its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee had before it
the report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraph 19 of
General Assembly resolution 48/47 of 10 December 1993 (A/49/216 and Add.1).

6. At its 13th meeting, on 28 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 12 of chapter VI of the report of the Special
Committee (A/49/23 (Part IV)), by a recorded vote of 99 to 1, with 42
abstentions (see para. 7). 3/ The voting was as follows: 4/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of

2/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/49/23).

3/ The representative of Germany (on behalf of the European Union) made a
statement in explanation of vote.

4/ Subsequently, the delegation of Bulgaria informed the Secretariat that
it had intended to abstain in the vote.

/...



A/49/625
English
Page 3

Korea, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND DECOLONIZATION
COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
by the specialized agencies and the international
institutions associated with the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations",

Having also considered the reports submitted on the item by the Secretary-
General 5/ and the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 6/

5/ A/49/216 and Add.1.

6/ A/AC.109/L.1824.

/...



A/49/625
English
Page 4

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, 7/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, as well as all its other
resolutions on this subject, including, in particular, resolution 46/181 of
19 December 1991, endorsing the Plan of Action for the International Decade for
the Eradication of Colonialism, 8/

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity, the South Pacific Forum and the Caribbean
Community,

Concerned that the objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
have not been fully achieved,

Noting that the large majority of the remaining Non-Self-Governing
Territories are small island Territories,

Noting that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 48/193 of
21 December 1993, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing States was held in Barbados from 25 April to 6 May 1994,

Noting also that some Non-Self-Governing Territories participated in the
Conference as associate members of regional commissions,

Recalling relevant resolutions of the Caribbean Development and Cooperation
Committee concerning the access of Non-Self-Governing Territories to programmes
of the United Nations system,

Noting the assistance extended thus far to Non-Self-Governing Territories
by certain specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, and considering
that such assistance should be expanded further, commensurate with the pressing
needs of the peoples concerned for external assistance,

Stressing that, because the development options of small island
Non-Self-Governing Territories are limited, there are special challenges to
planning for and implementing sustainable development and that those Territories
will be constrained in meeting the challenges without the cooperation and
assistance of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system,

7/ A/49/23 (Part IV), chap. VI.

8/ See A/46/634/Rev. 1.

/...



A/49/625
English
Page 5

Stressing the importance of securing necessary resources for funding
expanded assistance programmes for the peoples concerned and the need to enlist
the support of all major funding institutions within the United Nations system
in that regard,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to take all the necessary measures,
within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full
implementation, without further delay, of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)
and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations, particularly those
relating to the extension of assistance to the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing
Territories,

Expressing its appreciation to the Organization of African Unity, the South
Pacific Forum and the Caribbean Community, as well as other regional
organizations, for the continued cooperation and assistance they have extended
to the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system
in this regard,

Expressing its conviction that closer contacts and consultations between
and among the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system and regional organizations help to facilitate the effective formulation
of assistance programmes to the peoples concerned,

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the
activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions
relating to decolonization,

Bearing in mind the extremely fragile economies of the Non-Self-Governing
small island Territories and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such as
hurricanes, cyclones and sea-level rise, and recalling relevant General Assembly
resolutions, in particular resolution 47/189 of 22 December 1992,

Recalling its resolution 47/22 of 25 November 1992 on cooperation and
coordination of the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations in their assistance to Non-Self-Governing
Territories,

1. Takes note of the report of the Chairman of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples on his consultations
with the President of the Economic and Social Council 6/ and endorses the
observations and suggestions arising therefrom; 9/

2. Recommends that all States intensify their efforts in the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to ensure the full
and effective implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence

9/ See E/1994/114.

/...



A/49/625
English
Page 6

to Colonial Countries and Peoples and other relevant resolutions of the United
Nations;

3. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organizations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute to the
full implementation, without further delay, of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and all other relevant General
Assembly resolutions;

4. Reaffirms also that the recognition by the General Assembly, the
Security Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the
aspiration of the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories to exercise their
right to self-determination and independence entails, as a corollary, the
extension of all appropriate assistance to those peoples;

5. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system that have continued to cooperate with
the United Nations and the regional and subregional organizations in the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations, and urges all the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations system to accelerate the full and
speedy implementation of the relevant provisions of those resolutions;

6. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system, as well as international and regional organizations, to
examine and review conditions in each Territory so as to take appropriate
measures to accelerate progress in the economic and social sectors of the
Territories;

7. Requests the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations, as well as regional organizations, to
strengthen existing measures of support and formulate appropriate programmes of
assistance to the remaining Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories, within the
framework of their respective mandates, in order to accelerate progress in the
economic and social sectors of those Territories;

8. Also requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system, in formulating their assistance programmes, to take due
account of the conclusions and recommendations, entitled "Challenges and
opportunities: a strategic framework", of the Meeting of Governmental Experts
of Island Developing Countries and Donor Countries and Organizations, held in
New York in June 1990; 10/

9. Further requests the specialized agencies to take into account the
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States, adopted by the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small

10/ A/CONF.147/5-TD/B/AC.46/4, chap. II.

/...



A/49/625
English
Page 7

Island Developing States, 11/ in particular its application to small island
Non-Self-Governing Territories;

10. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system to formulate programmes that will support the sustainable
development of small island Non-Self-Governing Territories and adopt measures
that will enable those Territories to cope effectively, creatively and
sustainably with environmental changes and to mitigate impacts and reduce the
threats posed to marine and coastal resources;

11. Urges the executive heads of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to formulate, with the active
cooperation of the regional organizations concerned, concrete proposals for the
full implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and to
submit the proposals as a matter of priority to their governing and legislative
organs;

12. Recommends that the executive heads of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund draw the attention of their governing bodies to the
present resolution and consider introducing flexible procedures to prepare
specific programmes for the peoples of the Trust and Non-Self-Governing
Territories;

13. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system that have not already done so to include in the agenda of the
regular meetings of their governing bodies a separate item on the progress they
have made in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and
other relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

14. Welcomes the continued initiative exercised by the United Nations
Development Programme in maintaining close liaison among the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system and in providing
assistance to the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories, and calls upon the
executive bodies of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system to consider contributing to the relief, rehabilitation and
reconstruction efforts in those Non-Self-Governing Territories affected by
natural disasters and to look to the Programme of Action for the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States for guidance concerning their
roles in natural disaster preparedness, mitigation, response and recovery,
taking into account the outcome of the International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction;

15. Encourages Non-Self-Governing Territories to take steps to establish
and/or strengthen disaster preparedness and management institutions and
policies;

16. Urges the administering Powers concerned to facilitate the
participation of the representatives of the Governments of Trust and
Non-Self-Governing Territories in the relevant meetings and conferences of the

11/ See A/CONF.167/9 and Corr.1 and 2, chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.

/...



A/49/625
English
Page 8

agencies and organizations so that the Territories may draw the maximum benefits
from the related activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations
of the United Nations system;

17. Recommends that all Governments intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system of
which they are members to ensure the full and effective implementation of
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the
United Nations and, in that connection, accord priority to the question of
providing assistance on an emergency basis to the peoples of the Trust and
Non-Self-Governing Territories;

18. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the
assistance of those agencies and organizations, a report on the action taken in
implementation of the relevant resolutions, including the present resolution,
since the circulation of his previous report;

19. Commends the Economic and Social Council for its debate and its
resolution 1994/37 of 29 July 1994 on this issue and requests it to continue to
consider, in consultation with the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples, appropriate measures for coordination of the
policies and activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of
the United Nations system in implementing the relevant resolutions of the
General Assembly;

20. Requests the specialized agencies to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the present resolution;

21. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to
the governing bodies of the appropriate specialized agencies and international
institutions associated with the United Nations so that those bodies take the
necessary measures to implement the resolution, and also requests the Secretary-
General to report to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session on the
implementation of the present resolution;

22. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question and
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session.

-----


