





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/702
2 December 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 65

ISRAELI NUCLEAR ARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Peter GOOSEN (South Africa)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Israeli nuclear armament" was included in the
provisional agenda of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly in
accordance with Assembly resolution 48/78 of 16 December 1993.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 October 1994, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 53 to 66, 68 to 72 and 153. The deliberations on those
items took place at the 3rd to 10th meetings, from 17 to 24 October 1994 (see
A/C.1/49/PV.3-10). Structured discussions of specific subjects on the adopted
thematic approach took place from 25 to 27 and on 31 October and 1 November.
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 12th to
16th meetings, on 3, 4, 7 and 9 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.12-16). Action on
draft resolutions on those items was taken at the 19th to 25th meetings, from
14 to 18 November (see A/C.1/49/PV.19-25).

4. In connection with item 65, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General (A/49/652);

(b) Letter dated 25 June 1994 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Egypt addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting the texts of the documents

94-47838 (E) 071294 /...



A/49/702
English
Page 2

adopted by the Eleventh Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Cairo from 31 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/287-S/1994/894 and
Corr.1);

(c) Letter dated 28 September 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Pakistan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the texts of the documents adopted by the Islamic Conference of Foreign
Ministers at its seventh extraordinary session, held at Islamabad from 7 to
9 September 1994 (A/49/448).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/49/L.11 AND Rev.1

5. On 31 October, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Yemen submitted a
draft resolution entitled "The threat of nuclear armament in the Middle East"
(A/C.1/49/L.11), which was later also sponsored by Kuwait and Malaysia. The
draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Egypt at the
16th meeting, on 9 November.

6. On 15 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/49/L.11/Rev.1), which was later also sponsored by Djibouti and
Mauritania. The revised draft resolution contained the following changes:

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, after the words "relevant United
Nations resolutions", the words "the most recent of which is General Assembly
resolution 48/78 of 16 December 1993" were deleted;

(b) In the third preambular paragraph, the words "Middle East poses" were
revised to read "Middle East would pose";

(c) The fifth preambular paragraph, which had read:

"Also aware of the recent positive development in the Middle East
peace process, which would be further strengthened by means of the States
of the region undertaking practical measures, as soon as possible, in order
to strengthen the non-proliferation regime",

was revised to read:

"Encouraged by the recent positive developments in the Middle East
peace process, which would be further strengthened by States of the region
undertaking practical confidence-building measures in order to consolidate
the non-proliferation regime";

(d) Operative paragraph 1, which had read:

"1. Calls upon Israel, the only State of the region with advanced
unsafeguarded nuclear capabilities, not to develop, produce, test or
otherwise acquire nuclear weapons, to renounce possession of nuclear
weapons and to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons",

/...



A/49/702
English
Page 3

was revised to read:

"1. Calls upon Israel and all other States of the region that are not
yet party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, not to
develop, produce, test or otherwise acquire nuclear weapons, to renounce
possession of nuclear weapons and to accede to the Treaty";

(e) Operative paragraphs 2 and 3 were deleted and the operative paragraphs
were renumbered accordingly;

(f) Operative paragraph 4, which had read:

"4. Calls upon all States of the region to place all their nuclear
facilities under the full-scope safeguards of the International Atomic
Energy Agency as an important confidence-building measure among all States
in the region and as a step towards enhancing peace and security",

was revised to read:

"4. Calls upon the States of the region that have not done so to
place all their nuclear facilities under full-scope safeguards of the
International Atomic Energy Agency as an important confidence-building
measure among all States of the region and as a step towards enhancing
peace and security".

(g) In operative paragraph 6, the words "The threat of nuclear armament in
the Middle East" were revised to read "The risk of nuclear proliferation in the
Middle East".

7. At its 22nd meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/49/L.11/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 55 to 5, with 82 abstentions (see
para. 8). The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, China, Colombia, Cuba,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Guatemala, Guinea, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Pakistan,
Paraguay, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: Argentina, Israel, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated
States of), United States of America.

1/ Subsequently the delegation of Qatar informed the Secretariat that had
it been present it would have voted in favour.

/...



A/49/702
English
Page 4

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica, El Salvador,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mauritius,
Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San
Marino, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Tajikistan, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the relevant United Nations resolutions,

Taking note of the relevant resolutions adopted by the General Conference
of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the latest of which is
GC(XXXVIII)/RES/21 of 23 September 1994, 2/ and noting the danger of nuclear
proliferation, especially in areas of tension,

Cognizant that the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the region of the
Middle East would pose a serious threat to international peace and security,

Aware of the importance that all nuclear facilities in the region be placed
under full-scope safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency,

Encouraged by the recent positive developments in the Middle East peace
process, which would be further strengthened by States of the region undertaking
practical confidence-building measures in order to consolidate the
non-proliferation regime,

2/ See International Atomic Energy Agency, Resolutions and Other
Decisions of the General Conference, Thirty-eighth Regular Session,
19-23 September 1994 (GC(XXXVIII)/RESOLUTIONS (1994)).

/...



A/49/702
English
Page 5

1. Calls upon Israel and all other States of the region that are not yet
party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, 3/ not to
develop, produce, test or otherwise acquire nuclear weapons, to renounce
possession of nuclear weapons and to accede to the Treaty;

2. Calls upon the States of the region that have not done so to place all
their nuclear facilities under full-scope safeguards of the International Atomic
Energy Agency as an important confidence-building measure among all States of
the region and as a step towards enhancing peace and security;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
an item entitled "The risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East".

-----

3/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.


