





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/49/L.18/Rev.1*
30 November 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 30

ZONE OF PEACE AND COOPERATION OF THE SOUTH ATLANTIC

Angola, Argentina, Benin, Brazil, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Namibia, Nigeria, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Togo, Uruguay and

Zaire: revised draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986, in which it solemnly
declared the Atlantic Ocean, in the region situated between Africa and South
America, the "Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic",

Recalling also its subsequent resolutions on the matter, including
resolution 45/36 of 27 November 1990, in which it reaffirmed the determination
of the States of the zone to enhance and accelerate their cooperation in the
political, economic, scientific, technical, cultural and other spheres,

Reaffirming that the questions of peace and security and those of
development are interrelated and inseparable, and considering that cooperation
among all States, in particular those of the region, for peace and development
is essential in promoting the objectives of the zone of peace and cooperation in
the South Atlantic,

Aware of the importance that the States of the zone attach to the
preservation of the region’s environment, and recognizing the threat that
pollution from any source poses to the marine and coastal environment, its
ecological balance and its resources,

________________________

* Reissued for technical reasons.

94-47411 (E) 301194 /...

*9446609*



A/49/L.18/Rev.1
English
Page 2

Noting the concern expressed on the use of fishing methods and practices
that cause the over-exploitation of living marine resources, especially of
highly migratory and straddling fish stocks, and that it has an adverse impact
on the conservation and management of living resources of the marine
environment, both within and beyond the exclusive economic zones,

1. Emphasizes the importance of the purposes and objectives of the zone
of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic as a basis for the promotion of
cooperation among the countries of the region;

2. Calls upon all States to cooperate in the promotion of the objectives
established in the declaration of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South
Atlantic and to refrain from any action inconsistent with those objectives and
with the Charter of the United Nations and relevant resolutions of the
Organization, particularly action which may create or aggravate situations of
tension and potential conflict in the region;

3. Welcomes with satisfaction the holding of the third meeting of the
States members of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic, held
at Brasilia on 21 and 22 September 1994, 1/ and takes note of the Final
Declaration, the Declaration on the Denuclearization of the South Atlantic, the
Declaration on the Marine Environment, the Declaration on Business Cooperation
in the South Atlantic and the decision on the establishment of the Permanent
Committee of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic, adopted at
the meeting; 2/

4. Welcomes the agreement reached at Brasilia to encourage democracy and
political pluralism and, in accordance with the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993, 3/
to promote and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms and also to
cooperate towards the achievement of those goals;

5. Takes note of the report submitted by the Secretary-General, in
accordance with its resolution 48/23 of 24 November 1993; 4/

6. Welcomes the recent progress towards the full entry into force of the
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean
(Treaty of Tlatelolco) for all States in Latin America and the Caribbean, which
will permit the consolidation in the near future of the status of the Latin
American and Caribbean Treaty region as a nuclear-weapon-free zone;

1/ See A/49/467.

2/ Ibid., annexes I-V.

3/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

4/ A/49/324.

/...



A/49/L.18/Rev.1
English
Page 3

7. Welcomes also the efforts made towards the implementation of the
Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa 5/ leading to the conclusion of
a treaty on a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa;

8. Affirms the importance of the South Atlantic to global maritime and
commercial transactions and its determination to preserve the region for all
activities protected by customary international law, as reflected in the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea;

9. Warmly welcomes South Africa into the community of South Atlantic
States;

10. Expresses its appreciation for the efforts of the international
community, especially the recent adoption by the Security Council of resolutions
aimed at achieving a lasting peace in Liberia and Angola, and welcomes in
particular the initialling of the Lusaka Protocol by the Government of Angola
and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola;

11. Commends the efforts of Member States and humanitarian organizations
to render emergency humanitarian assistance to Angola and Liberia, and urges
them to continue to provide and to increase such assistance;

12. Congratulates the Government of Nigeria for its valuable work as
coordinator of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic since the
meeting held at Abuja in 1990 and expresses its satisfaction at the constructive
participation of all members of the zone during the same period;

13. Welcomes the offers made by the Governments of South Africa, Argentina
and Benin to host the fourth, fifth and sixth ministerial meetings of the zone
of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic in 1995, 1996 and 1997;

14. Welcomes also the offer made by the Government of Namibia to host a
meeting of ministers of trade and industry of the zone of peace and cooperation
of the South Atlantic in early 1995;

15. Stresses the importance to the zone of peace and cooperation of the
South Atlantic of the results of the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 3 to 14 June 1992,
highlighting as a remarkable result the adoption of the Rio Declaration on
Environment and Development 6/ and Agenda 21, 7/ as well as the United

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twentieth Session, Annexes,
agenda item 105, document A/5975.

6/ Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I, resolution 1, annex I.

7/ Ibid., resolution 1, annex II.

/...



A/49/L.18/Rev.1
English
Page 4

Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 8/ and the Convention on
Biological Diversity, 9/ in the conviction that their implementation will
strengthen the basis for cooperation within the zone and for the benefit of the
international community as a whole;

16. Requests the relevant organizations, organs and bodies of the United
Nations system to render appropriate assistance which States of the zone may
seek in their joint efforts to implement the objectives of the zone of peace and
cooperation of the South Atlantic;

17. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the implementation of
resolution 41/11 and other subsequent resolutions on the matter under review and
to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, taking into
account, inter alia, the views expressed by Member States;

18. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth session
the item entitled "Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic".

-----

8/ A/AC.237/18 (Part II)/Add.1 and Corr.1, annex I.

9/ See United Nations Environment Programme, Convention on Biological
Diversity (Environmental Law and Institutions Programme Activity Centre),
June 1992.


