





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/726
15 December 1994

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 12

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ahmed Yousif MOHAMED (Sudan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-ninth session the item entitled "Report of the Economic and Social
Council" and to allocate to the Second Committee chapters of the Council’s
report (A/49/3) 1/ that were considered under the relevant items of the agenda
(see A/C.2/49/1).

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 17th to 19th, 21st, 22nd,
25th, 28th, 29th, 32nd, 34th and 35th meetings, on 31 October, 2, 8, 10, 15, 16
and 23 November and 7 and 13 December 1994. An account of the Committee’s
general discussion of the item is contained in the relevant summary records
(A/C.2/49/SR.17-19, 21, 22, 25, 28, 29, 32, 34 and 35). Attention is also drawn
to the general debate held by the Committee at its 3rd to 8th meetings, on 7 and
10 to 13 October (see A/C.2/49/SR.3-8).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Economic and Social Council
for 1994 (chaps. I, II, III (sects. A and C), IV, V (sects. I and J),
VI (sects. A to J, L and M), VII to XI, XIII and XVII) (A/49/3 and Add.1); 1/

1/ To be issued in final form as Official Records of the General
Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. (A/49/3/Rev.1).

94-50271 (E) 161294 /...



A/49/726
English
Page 2

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the Charter
of Economic Rights and Duties of States (A/49/179-E/1994/82);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on resource mobilization for the
implementation of the regional action programme for phase II (1992-1996) of the
Transport and Communications Decade for Asia and the Pacific (A/49/437);

(d) Notes by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Joint
Inspection Unit entitled "Working with non-governmental organizations:
operational activities for development of the United Nations system with
non-governmental organizations and Governments at the grass-roots and national
levels" (A/49/122-E/1994/44) and transmitting ACC comments thereon
(A/49/122-E/1994/44/Add.1);

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on economic and social repercussions of
the Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab population of the
Syrian Golan (A/49/169-E/1994/73);

(f) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Executive
Director of the United Nations Population Fund on the United Nations Population
Award (A/49/189);

(g) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the
open-ended working group on the review of arrangements for consultations with
non-governmental organizations (A/49/215-E/1994/99);

(h) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Joint
Inspection Unit entitled "Review and assessment of efforts to restructure the
regional dimension of United Nations economic and social activities" (A/49/423);

(i) Note by the Secretariat on modalities of reporting in the economic,
social and related fields (A/C.2/49/3);

(j) Note by the Secretariat on recommendations contained in the report of
the Committee for Development Planning (A/C.2/49/4);

(k) Note by the Secretariat on a review of the arrangements for
consultation with non-governmental organizations (A/C.2/49/6);

(l) Note by the Secretariat on the question of declaring 1998
international year of the ocean (A/C.2/49/7);

(m) Note by the Secretariat on the commemoration of the millennium of the
Kyrgyz national epic, Manas (A/C.2/49/L.2);

(n) Note by the Secretariat on the integration of the Commission on
Transnational Corporations into the institutional machinery of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development (A/C.2/49/L.3);

(o) Letter dated 3 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Algeria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 3

the ministerial declaration of the Group of 77, adopted at its eighteenth annual
Ministerial Meeting, held in New York on 30 September 1994 (A/49/462 and
Corr.1);

(p) Letter dated 23 September 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Panama to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the final report of the ____ regular meeting of the Latin American Council, held
in Mexico City from 30 May to 3 June 1994 (A/49/486);

(q) Letter dated 10 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Morocco to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the text of the Tangier Declaration adopted by the Pan-African Conference of
Ministers of the Civil Service held at Tangier, Morocco, on 20 and 21 June 1994
(A/49/495);

(r) Letter dated 11 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Bangladesh to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the declaration adopted by the Ministerial Meeting of the Least
Developed Countries in New York on 4 October 1994 (A/49/506);

(s) Letter dated 17 October 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the communiqué of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-ninth session
of the General Assembly, held at United Nations Headquarters on 5 October 1994
(A/49/532-S/1994//1179);

(t) Letter dated 7 November 1994 from the Permanent Representative of
Morocco to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the declaration adopted by the Middle East/North Africa Economic Summit held at
Casablanca, Morocco, from 30 October to 1 November 1994 (A/49/645).

4. At the 17th meeting, on 31 October, an introductory statement was made by
the Director of the Division for Policy Coordination and Economic and Social
Affairs (see A/C.2/49/SR.17).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.2

5. At its 29th meeting, on 23 November, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution entitled "Commemoration of the millennium of the Kyrgyz national
epic, Manas" (A/C.2/49/L.2), recommended by the Economic and Social Council, in
its resolution 1994/49 of 29 July 1994, to the General Assembly for adoption.

6. At the same meeting, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Raiko Raichev
(Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the results of the informal consultations
held on the draft resolution.

7. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of
Kyrgyzstan made a statement (see A/C.2/49/SR.29).

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 4

8. Also at the same meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the General
Assembly the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.2 (see para. 49, draft
resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.3

9. At its 32nd meeting, on 7 December, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution entitled "Integration of the Commission on Transnational Corporations
into the institutional machinery of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development" (A/C.2/49/L.3), recommended by the Economic and Social Council, in
its resolution 1994/1 of 14 July 1994, to the General Assembly for adoption.

10. At the same meeting, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Raiko Raichev
(Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the results of the informal consultations
held on the draft resolution.

11. Also at the same meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the General
Assembly the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.3 (see para. 49, draft
resolution II).

C. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.11

12. At the 21st meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Portugal, on
behalf of Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, Colombia, the Comoros, the Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, the
Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Fiji, France, Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, the Republic of
Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Vanuatu and Venezuela, joined subsequently by
Bulgaria, Cameroon, Croatia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan,
Madagascar, Norway, Singapore and Tunisia, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Question of declaring 1998 International Year of the Ocean"
(A/C.2/49/L.11).

13. At the 29th meeting, on 23 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Raiko Raichev (Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on the draft resolution.

14. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Portugal
made a statement (see A/C.2/49/SR.29).

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 5

15. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.11
(see para. 49, draft resolution III).

D. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.14

16. At the 29th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of the United
States of America, on behalf of Belarus, the Czech Republic, Finland, Romania,
the Russian Federation and Slovenia, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Modalities of reporting in the economic, social and related fields"
(A/C.2/49/L.14).

17. At the 34th meeting, on 13 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Raiko Raichev (Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on the draft resolution.

18. At the same meeting, statements were made by the Director of the Division
for Policy Coordination and Economic and Social Council Affairs, Department for
Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development, and the representative of
Algeria (see A/C.2/49/SR.34).

19. Also at the same meeting, the Committee decided to ask its Chairman to
transmit the draft text to the Chairman of the Fifth Committee in order for it
to be considered in the context of the question of the rationalization of
documentation.

E. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.15

20. At the 22nd meeting, on 10 November, the representative of Egypt, on behalf
of Algeria, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Mauritania, Tunisia and Yemen, subsequently
joined by Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli settlements on the
Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, occupied
since 1967, and on the Arab population of the Syrian Golan" (A/C.2/49/L.15).

21. At the 34th meeting, on 13 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Raiko Raichev (Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on the draft resolution.

22. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Egypt, the United States of America and Israel (see
A/C.2/49/SR.34).

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 6

23. At its 34th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/49/L.15 by a recorded vote of 112 to 2, with 23 abstentions (see para. 49,
draft resolution IV). The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guyana,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela,
Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Angola, Belarus, Central African Republic, Congo, Costa Rica,
Czech Republic, Fiji, Gabon, Georgia, Kenya, Malawi, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nigeria, Papua New
Guinea, Russian Federation, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
Swaziland, Ukraine, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Zambia.

24. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq
and Ukraine, as well as by the observer for Palestine (see A/C.2/49/SR.34).

F. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.16

25. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Algeria, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group
of 77 and China, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Report of the Committee

2/ The representatives of Egypt and Saudi Arabia indicated that they had
intended to vote in favour. Subsequently, the representatives of Botswana,
Cuba, Ghana, Senegal and Viet Nam stated that had their delegations been present
during the voting, they would have voted in favour.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 7

for Development Planning: general review of the list of the least developed
countries" (A/C.2/49/L.16).

26. At the 29th meeting, on 23 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Raiko Raichev (Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the following oral
revision to the draft resolution as a result of the informal consultations:
preambular paragraph 3, which read:

"Noting with concern that the international economic environment has
not been conducive to the growth and development of developing countries,
which has led to an increase in the number of least developed countries,
especially in Africa"

was replaced with the following:

"Noting with concern the increase in the number of least developed
countries, particularly in Africa, and underlining the importance of the
creation of a conducive international economic environment for the growth
and development of the developing countries, particularly the least
developed countries".

27. A statement of the programme budget implications of draft resolution
A/C.2/49/L.16, submitted by the Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153 of
the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, was contained in document
A/C.2/49/L.21.

28. At its 29th meeting, on 23 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/49/L.16, as orally revised (see para. 49, draft resolution V).

29. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of Algeria, on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are members of the Group of 77 and China (see A/C.2/49/SR.29).

G. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.22

30. At the 28th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Ghana, on behalf
of the African States, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Strengthening
information systems for Africa’s recovery and sustainable development"
(A/C.2/49/L.22).

31. At the 34th meeting, on 13 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Raiko Raichev (Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on the draft resolution, and orally revised it as
follows: the operative paragraph, which read:

"Decides to endorse resolution 789 (XXIX) of 4 May 1994 of the
Conference of Ministers of the Economic Commission for Africa, in which the
Ministers call for the creation of three Professional posts at appropriate
levels in the Commission’s subprogramme on statistical and information
systems development, so as to permit the delivery of activities on
information systems development"

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 8

was replaced with the following:

"Endorses resolution 789 (XXIX) of 4 May 1994 of the Conference of
Ministers of the Economic Commission for Africa and requests the
Secretary-General fully to implement the resolution within existing United
Nations resources".

32. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.22,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 49, draft resolution VI).

H. Draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.26 and Rev.1

33. At the 29th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Algeria, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group
of 77 and China, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing countries,
particularly in Africa" (A/C.2/49/L.26). The draft resolution read as follows:

"Preventive action and intensification of the struggle
against malaria in developing countries, particularly

in Africa

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming the agreed conclusions on the coordination segment of the
substantive session of 1993 of the Economic and Social Council on the
coordination of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and
other bodies of the United Nations system in the fields of preventive
action and intensification of the struggle against malaria and diarrhoeal
diseases, in particular cholera, 3/

"Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1994/34 of
29 July 1994, including preventive action and intensification of the
struggle against malaria in developing countries, particularly in Africa,

"Acknowledging the importance for endemically affected countries of
having a modern strategy to control this most deadly of all tropical
diseases which annually causes more than one million deaths world wide and
nine hundred thousand deaths in Africa,

"Deeply concerned by the development of more than three hundred
million new cases of malaria annually and by the emergence of a new type of
drug-resistant malaria,

"Noting with concern that a major problem complicating malaria
treatment and thereby contributing to malaria-related mortality is the

3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/48/3/Rev.1), chap. III, sect. B.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 9

continuous intensification and spread of parasite resistance to
anti-malarial drugs,

"Noting with regret that chloroquine, which traditionally has been
prescribed both for prophylaxis and for curative purposes, can no longer be
totally relied upon,

"Recognizing that malaria-related deaths in the world could be
prevented, if appropriate health services were made available in
endemically affected countries,

"1. Endorses the new Global Malaria Control Strategy of the World
Health Organization, endorsed in 1992 by the Ministerial Conference on
Malaria, held in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, which aims to prevent
mortality and reduce morbidity as well as social and economic losses due to
malaria;

"2. Recognizes that, where the disease is most prevalent, malaria-
related problems vary enormously from situation to situation owing to
epidemiological, social, economic and operational factors;

"3. Stresses that to achieve the objectives of the Strategy will
require the progressive improvement and strengthening of local, national,
regional and international capabilities, especially with the aim of
enhancing partnership and coordination efforts, involving sectors like
education, agriculture and the environment, as well as integrating
activities with those on related diseases;

"4. Notes with appreciation the continued efforts undertaken by
Governments to control the disease, in spite of their meagre resources,
including the actions they have taken to stop its outbreak through the
widespread spraying of insecticide and by making available appropriate
anti-malarial products;

"5. Welcomes the fact that the World Health Organization has recently
increased its commitment to malaria control, especially in Africa, where
the overwhelming majority both of cases and of deaths occur;

"6. Also welcomes the fact that Dr. Manuel Elkin Patarroyo of
Colombia generously offered to donate the full licence rights of his
vaccine SPF-66 to the World Health Organization in June 1993;

"7. Notes that there is still a great need to increase resources
despite a concerted international effort launched by the World Health
Organization and other relevant regional and international bodies to
mobilize the necessary resources to control malaria world wide;

"8. Appeals to the international community, international
organizations, multilateral financial institutions, specialized agencies,
organs and programmes of the United Nations system and non-governmental
organizations as well as all interested groups to provide developing
countries, in particular African countries, with technical, medical and

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 10

financial assistance commensurate with the efforts needed to control this
endemic disease;

"9. Requests the Director-General of the World Health Organization,
as the lead agency in this field, to mobilize organizations, agencies,
organs and programmes of the United Nations system in order to provide
technical, medical and financial assistance for preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria, and also requests him to
coordinate all activities in the field;

"10. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its fiftieth session the report of the Director-General of the World
Health Organization, to be prepared in collaboration with other relevant
organizations, agencies, organs and programmes of the United Nations
system, on the implementation of the present resolution, including,
inter alia, answers to the many questions that still need to be addressed,
as well as the utilization of an effective malaria vaccine in an integrated
approach, together with other malaria-control tools, including drugs and
insecticide-impregnated bed nets."

34. At the 31st meeting, on 1 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Raiko Raichev (Bulgaria), informed the Committee of the results of informal
consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.26, and drew the Committee’s
attention to a revised draft resolution contained in document
A/C.2/49/L.26/Rev.1.

35. At the same meeting, the representative of Algeria, on behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and China,
informed the Committee that Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and
the United States of America had joined in sponsoring the revised draft
resolution.

36. Before the adoption of the revised draft resolution, a statement was made
by the representative of the Division for Policy Coordination and Economic and
Social Council Affairs, Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable
Development.

37. At its 31st meeting, on 1 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/49/L.26/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 49, draft resolution VII).

38. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements were made by
the representatives of the Sudan and Colombia (see A/C.2/49/SR.31).

I. Draft resolutions A/C.2/49/L.35 and L.78

39. At the 29th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Morocco, on
behalf of Argentina, Benin, Cameroon, the Comoros, the Congo, Djibouti, Lesotho,
Morocco, Mozambique, Senegal, South Africa, Togo, Tunisia and Zaire,
subsequently joined by Gabon, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Malawi and Mongolia,

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 11

introduced a draft resolution entitled "World Conference on Public
Administration and Development" (A/C.2/49/L.35), which read as follows:

"World Conference on Public Administration
and Development

"The General Assembly,

"Considering that the political and economic upheavals of recent years
place new responsibilities on public administrations, especially to develop
basic infrastructural facilities, promote social development, combat
socio-economic disparities, and prepare appropriate conditions by expanding
the private sector,

"Recognizing the need to modernize public administrative structures in
order to ensure a civil service that is close to the citizens and to
provide quality services,

"Considering that any sustainable economic and social development must
be backed by an efficient, competent, and responsible administration,

"Considering also that investment in human resources constitutes the
essential basis for sustainable development and a principal factor for
progress and welfare,

"Considering further that initiatives to reform their public
administrations taken by the developing countries in the context of
structural adjustment programmes have not always been based on a policy
conceived and defined for the long term,

"Realizing that it is necessary for countries to initiate concrete
policies for the civil service in order to meet the challenges posed by
sustainable development at the national level,

"Recognizing the crucial importance of a proper balance and a
complementarity between the public and private sectors,

"Considering finally that a strategy should be defined at the
international level with regard to the role of public administrations in
development,

"1. Registers its satisfaction at the Tangier Declaration, 4/
adopted by the Pan-African Conference of Ministers of the Civil Service
held in Morocco on 20 and 21 June 1994;

"2. Decides to convene in 1997 a World Conference on Administration
and Development for one week and at the highest possible level;

4/ A/49/495, annex.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 12

"3. Decides also to establish a General Assembly Preparatory
Committee for the World Conference on Administration and Development, open
to all States Members of the United Nations and members of the specialized
agencies, and to authorize observers to participate in its work, in
accordance with established practice;

"4. Decides that the Preparatory Committee shall hold two sessions of
one week each at United Nations Headquarters in New York in 1995 and 1996;

"5. Decides also that the Preparatory Committee shall elect a
chairman, three vice-chairmen and a rapporteur;

"6. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report to the
Preparatory Committee giving recommendations on measures to be taken as
part of the preparations for the World Conference on Administration and
Development, bearing in mind the provisions of this resolution;

"7. Decides that the Preparatory Committee is to draw up the
provisional agenda for the Conference and prepare draft decisions for
submission to the Conference for consideration and adoption;

"8. Invites all States to take an active part in the preparations for
the Conference;

"9. Requests interested non-governmental organizations in
consultative status with the Economic and Social Council to contribute, as
appropriate, to the work of the Preparatory Committee for the Conference
and to the work of the Conference;

"10. Decides that the preparations for the Conference and the
Conference itself shall be financed from the regular budget of the United
Nations, without prejudice to ongoing activities and without excluding the
possibility of obtaining funds from extrabudgetary sources;

"11. Requests the Secretary-General and the Chairman of the
Preparatory Committee to make a progress report on the work of the
Preparatory Committee to the General Assembly at its fiftieth and
fifty-first sessions;

"12. Decides to place on the provisional agenda of its fiftieth and
fifty-first sessions an item entitled ’World Conference on Public
Administration and Development’."

40. At its 35th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee had before it draft
resolution A/C.2/49/L.78 entitled "Public administration and development",
submitted by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Raiko Raichev (Bulgaria),
on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.35,
and orally revised the text as follows: in the second line of the eighth
preambular paragraph, the phrase "to the appropriate authorities within the
national context" was deleted.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 13

41. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Morocco and France (see A/C.2/49/SR.35).

42. At its 35th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/49/L.78, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 49, draft
resolution VIII).

43. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of China and Malaysia (A/C.2/49/SR.35).

44. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/49/L.78, draft
resolution A/C.2/49/L.35 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

J. Documents relating to the report of the Economic
and Social Council

45. At its 35th meeting, on 13 December, on the proposal of the Chairman, the
Committee decided to recommend to the General Assembly that it take note of the
reports under the item on which no draft proposals had been submitted (see
para. 50, draft decision I).

K. Consideration of the draft biennial programme of work
of the Second Committee for 1995-1996

46. At the 35th meeting, on 13 December, the representative of the Secretariat
introduced and read out corrections to the draft biennial programme of work of
the Second Committee for 1995-1996 (A/C.2/49/L.63, annex).

47. During consideration of the draft programme of work, statements were made
and questions raised by the representatives of Algeria (on behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and China),
Ukraine, Tunisia and Benin (see A/C.2/49/SR.35). The representative of the
Secretariat responded to questions.

48. At its 35th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee approved the draft
biennial programme of work of the Second Committee for 1995-1996, as orally
corrected, and decided to recommend it to the General Assembly for adoption (see
para. 50, draft decision II).

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 14

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

49. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Commemoration of the millennium of the Kyrgyz
national epic, Manas

The General Assembly,

Considering that 1995 is the year that marks the millennium of the Kyrgyz
national epic, Manas, which corresponds to the principles of the World Decade
for Cultural Development, 1988-1997, 5/

Recalling resolution 27 C/13.22 of the General Conference of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, concerning the
commemoration of anniversaries during the biennium 1994-1995,

Taking into consideration that the Manas epic has been a vital link in
sustaining and unifying the peoples of the Central Asian region throughout their
long history,

Recognizing that the epic is not only the source of the Kyrgyz language and
literature but also the foundation of the cultural, moral, historical, social
and religious traditions of the Kyrgyz people,

Bearing in mind that the epic promotes widely shared ideals and values of
humanity,

Mindful of the contribution that the commemoration of the millennium of the
Manas epic can make to the cultural and human heritage and to the furtherance of
international cooperation and understanding,

Noting the freedom-loving legacy of the epic for the nations of the region,

Noting also the ideals and principles contained in the "Memory of the
World" programme of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization,

1. Recognizes 1995 as the year commemorating the millennium of the Kyrgyz
national epic, Manas;

2. Welcomes the fact that the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization has assumed the role of lead organization for the
commemoration of the millennium of the Manas epic;

5/ General Assembly resolution 41/187.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 15

3. Encourages the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, in cooperation with the Government of Kyrgyzstan and other
interested international organizations, to take all appropriate measures to
observe 1995 as the year commemorating the millennium of the Manas epic;

4. Takes note with satisfaction of the international activities
undertaken by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization in collaboration with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to
spread international knowledge of the legacy of the Manas epic.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Integration of the Commission on Transnational
Corporations into the institutional machinery
of the United Nations Conference on Trade and

Development

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolution 47/212 B of 6 May 1993, adopted in the context
of the ongoing restructuring of the United Nations in the economic and social
fields, and endorsing the Secretary-General’s decision to consolidate all
activities related to transnational corporations within the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development,

Recognizing the key role of international investment, as well as the role
of other international market-driven capital flows, in the promotion of global
economic growth and development,

Affirming the unique value to the international community of the United
Nations intergovernmental deliberations on such issues,

Recognizing the need for improved efficiency and effectiveness within the
United Nations system in addressing international investment issues, and
recognizing that such improvements are attainable through improved
rationalization of both United Nations intergovernmental meetings and
Secretariat resources,

Considering the relocation in 1993 of the Transnational Corporations and
Management Division of the former Department of Economic and Social Development
of the United Nations Secretariat to the secretariat of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development as the Division on Transnational
Corporations and Investment,

Bearing in mind the work of the Commission on Transnational Corporations
over its past twenty sessions and that, in recent years, the activities of the
Commission have placed greater emphasis on the contribution of transnational
corporations to economic growth and development, strengthening cooperation
between host developing countries and transnational corporations, facilitating
flows of foreign direct investment, and exploring linkages among capital flows,
technology dissemination and acquisitions, and trade in goods and services, as

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 16

well as the fact that this shift has resulted in an increase in the number of
elements common to the Commission’s activities and those of the Trade and
Development Board and its subsidiary bodies,

Mindful of the need to avoid unnecessary duplication of work among United
Nations bodies,

Bearing in mind Economic and Social Council resolution 1913 (LVII) of
5 December 1974, in particular paragraphs 3 and 4 thereof, the document entitled
"A New Partnership for Development: The Cartagena Commitment", 6/ adopted by
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its eighth session,
held at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, from 8 to 25 February 1992, and General
Assembly resolution 47/183 of 22 December 1993, in which the Assembly reaffirmed
the important role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
inter alia, as the most appropriate focal point within the United Nations for
the integrated treatment of development and interrelated issues in key areas,
including trade, commodities, finance, investment, services and technology, in
the interests of all countries, particularly those of developing countries,

1. Decides that the Commission on Transnational Corporations should
become a commission of the Trade and Development Board and be renamed the
Commission on International Investment and Transnational Corporations;

2. Requests the Trade and Development Board to address urgently the
question of orienting the programme of work of the Commission on International
Investment and Transnational Corporations on the basis of recommendations made
by the Commission on Transnational Corporations at its twentieth session that
the Board should orient the work in such a way as to attract the attendance of
relevant senior public sector officials, whenever possible, as well as private
sector representatives, and that the work should include:

(a) Promoting the exchange of views and experience among interested
Governments, businesses, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations,
trade unions and experts on issues relating to international investment,
transnational corporations and the creation of an enabling environment for
private sector and enterprise development;

(b) Reviewing and providing guidance to the Secretariat with regard to its
research activities and the provision of information on policies, programmes and
developments related to international investment and transnational corporations
and the creation of an enabling environment for private sector and enterprise
development;

(c) Reviewing and providing guidance to the Secretariat on technical
assistance to Governments interested in developing investment regimes and
enabling environments so as to attract more foreign investment and support for

6/ Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
Eighth Session, Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, Report and Annexes (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.II.D.5), part one, sect. A.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 17

enterprise developments, thereby contributing to economic growth and development
of host countries;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to restore in full the resources of the
programme on transnational corporations as originally allocated in the proposed
programme budget for the biennium 1994-1995 and in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 48/228 A of 23 December 1993;

4. Invites Member States and interested parties to increase financial
support for technical cooperation, consultative and advisory services, training,
research and information activities in the field of foreign investment;

5. Decides that the Commission will keep under review the work of the
Intergovernmental Working Group of Experts on International Standards of
Accounting and Reporting, whose next session is to be held at Geneva in the
first half of 1995;

6. Also decides that the next session of the Commission should be held at
Geneva in the first half of 1995.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Question of declaring 1998 International Year of the Ocean

The General Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1994/48 of 29 July 1994,

Proclaims 1998 International Year of the Ocean.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli settlements
on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab

population of the Syrian Golan

The General Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1994/45 of 29 July 1994,

Reaffirming the principle of the permanent sovereignty of people under
foreign occupation over their national resources,

Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, affirming
the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force and recalling
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967 and 497 (1981) of
17 December 1981,

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 18

Recalling Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of 1 March 1980 and other
resolutions affirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 7/ to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 904 (1994) of 18 March 1994, in
which, among other things, the Council called upon Israel, the occupying Power,
to continue to take and implement measures, including, inter alia, confiscation
of arms, with the aim of preventing illegal acts of violence by Israeli settlers
and called for measures to be taken to guarantee the safety and protection of
the Palestinian civilians in the occupied territory,

Aware of the negative and grave economic and social repercussions of the
Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, and on the Arab population of the
Syrian Golan,

Welcoming the ongoing Middle East peace process started at Madrid, in
particular the signing of the first implementation agreement of the Declaration
of Principles, on the Gaza Strip and Jericho area, in Cairo on 4 May 1994,
between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, the
representative of the Palestinian people, 8/

1. Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General; 9/

2. Reaffirms that Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, are illegal
and an obstacle to economic and social development;

3. Recognizes the economic and social repercussions of the Israeli
settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory occupied by
Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, and on the Arab population of the Syrian
Golan;

4. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the Palestinian people and the
population of the Syrian Golan to their natural and all other economic
resources, and regards any infringement thereof as being illegal;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session, through the Economic and Social Council, a report on the
progress made in the implementation of the present resolution.

7/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973, p. 287.

8/ A/49/180-S/1994/727, annex.

9/ A/49/169-E/1994/73.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 19

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Report of the Committee for Development Planning: general
review of the list of the least developed countries

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 45/206 of 21 December 1990 and 46/206 of
20 December 1991,

Noting Economic and Social Council decision 1994/225 of 14 July 1994 on the
report of the Committee for Development Planning on its twenty-ninth
session, 10/ in which the Council decided to transmit the recommendations
contained in chapter V, section B, of that report to the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session for approval,

Noting with concern the increase in the number of least developed
countries, particularly in Africa, and underlining the importance of the
creation of a conducive international economic environment for the growth and
development of developing countries, particularly the least developed countries,

Recognizing that the decision to include any country in the group of least
developed countries should be made with that country’s due consent,

1. Takes note of the general review of the list of the least developed
countries carried out by the Committee for Development Planning, 11/ with a
view to identifying which countries should be included in or graduated from the
group of least developed countries;

2. Endorses the recommendations of the Committee to add Angola and
Eritrea to the list of the least developed countries and to graduate Botswana
from the list with immediate effect. 12/

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Strengthening information systems for Africa’s
recovery and sustainable development

The General Assembly,

Aware of the importance of information systems and technology for Africa’s
recovery and sustainable development,

10/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1994, Supplement
No. 2 (E/1994/22).

11/ Ibid., chap. V.

12/ Ibid., para. 264.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 20

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1994/42 of 29 July 1994,
in which the Council invited the General Assembly to review the programme budget
for the biennium 1994-1995 13/ with a view to permitting the delivery of the
activities of the subprogramme of the Economic Commission for Africa on
statistical and information systems development, and also recalling General
Assembly decision 48/453 of 21 December 1993, in which the Assembly agreed to
ensure the provision of adequate staffing and resources in the subprogramme,

Endorses resolution 789 (XXIX) of 4 May 1994 of the Conference of Ministers
of the Economic Commission for Africa, 14/ and requests the Secretary-General
fully to implement the resolution within existing United Nations resources.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Preventive action and intensification of the struggle against
malaria in developing countries, particularly in Africa

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the agreed conclusions of the coordination segment of the
substantive session of 1993 of the Economic and Social Council on the
coordination of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and
other bodies of the United Nations system in the fields of preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria and diarrhoeal diseases, in
particular cholera, 15/

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1994/34 of 29 July 1994,
including preventive action and intensification of the struggle against malaria
in developing countries, particularly in Africa,

Acknowledging the importance for endemically affected countries of having a
modern strategy to control this most deadly of all tropical diseases, which
annually causes more than one million deaths world wide and nine hundred
thousand deaths in Africa,

Deeply concerned by the development of more than three hundred million new
cases of malaria annually and by the emergence of a new type of drug-resistant
malaria,

13/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 6 (A/48/6/Rev.1 and Add.1).

14/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1994,
Supplement No. 20 (E/1994/40), chap. I, sect. I.A.

15/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/48/3/Rev.1), chap. III, sect. B.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 21

Noting with concern that a major problem complicating malaria treatment and
thereby contributing to malaria-related mortality is the continuous
intensification and spread of parasite resistance to anti-malarial drugs,

Noting with regret that chloroquine, which traditionally has been
prescribed both for prophylaxis and for curative purposes, can no longer be
totally relied upon,

Recognizing that malaria-related deaths in the world could be prevented, if
appropriate health services were made available in endemically affected
countries,

1. Endorses the new Global Malaria Control Strategy of the World Health
Organization, endorsed in 1992 by the Ministerial Conference on Malaria, held in
Amsterdam, the Netherlands, which aims to prevent mortality and reduce morbidity
as well as social and economic losses due to malaria;

2. Recognizes that, where the disease is most prevalent, malaria-related
problems vary enormously from situation to situation owing to epidemiological,
social, economic and operational factors;

3. Stresses that to achieve the objectives of the Strategy will require
the progressive improvement and strengthening of local, national, regional and
international capabilities, especially with the aim of enhancing partnership and
coordination efforts, involving sectors like education, agriculture and the
environment, as well as integrating activities with those on related diseases;

4. Notes with appreciation the continued efforts undertaken by
Governments to control the disease, in spite of their meagre resources,
including the actions they have taken to stop its outbreak through the
widespread spraying of insecticide and by making available appropriate
anti-malarial products;

5. Welcomes the fact that the World Health Organization has recently
increased its commitment to malaria control, especially in Africa, where the
overwhelming majority both of cases and of deaths occur;

6. Also welcomes the fact that Dr. Manuel Elkin Patarroyo of Colombia
generously offered to donate the full licence rights of his vaccine SPF-66 to
the World Health Organization in June 1993;

7. Notes that there is still a great need to increase resources despite a
concerted international effort launched by the World Health Organization and
other relevant regional and international bodies to mobilize the necessary
resources to control malaria world wide;

8. Calls for continued support, in particular for the United Nations
Development Programme/World Bank/World Health Organization special programme for
research and training in tropical diseases and to the Division of Control of
Tropical Diseases of the World Health Organization;

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 22

9. Appeals to the international community, international organizations,
multilateral financial institutions, specialized agencies, organs and programmes
of the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations as well as all
interested groups to provide developing countries, in particular African
countries, with technical, medical and financial assistance commensurate with
the efforts needed to control this endemic disease;

10. Invites the Director-General of the World Health Organization, as the
lead agency in this field, to promote the mobilization of organizations,
agencies, organs and programmes of the United Nations system in order to provide
technical, medical and financial assistance for preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria, and to elaborate a plan of
action detailing the coordination of all related activities in this field;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session the report of the Director-General of the World Health
Organization, to be prepared in collaboration with other relevant organizations,
agencies, organs and programmes of the United Nations system, on the
implementation of the present resolution, including, inter alia, answers to the
many questions that still need to be addressed, as well as the utilization of an
effective malaria vaccine in an integrated approach, together with other
malaria-control tools, including the incorporation of appropriate technologies
for malaria control, with specific attention to the results of scientific
investigations concerning the latest developments in this field.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Public administration and development

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the important role that Governments and public administrations
can play in addressing new responsibilities arising from the pursuit of
sustained economic growth and sustainable development in all countries,
including, inter alia, developing basic infrastructural facilities, promoting
social development, combating socio-economic disparities and poverty, preparing,
as appropriate, conditions for the private sector and protecting the
environment,

Recognizing also the need for strengthened public administrative capacities
in order to ensure a civil service that is responsive to the needs of the people
and that provides quality services,

Affirming that States have the sovereign right and responsibility to
decide, in accordance with their own development strategies, needs and
priorities, on their public administration,

Considering that efficient and competent national administrations,
responsible to their own people, should support sustained economic growth and
sustainable development,

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 23

Considering also that the development of human resources constitutes an
essential basis for sustained economic growth and sustainable development and a
principal factor of progress and welfare,

Considering further that some initiatives to reform their public
administrations taken by certain countries in the context of structural
adjustment programmes have not always been based on a policy conceived and
defined for the long term,

Recognizing the important and mutually complementary roles that can be
played by the public and private sectors in sustained economic growth and
sustained development,

Recognizing also the importance of efficient and competent public
administration, responsible to its own people, for the successful implementation
of economic reforms in all countries, in particular in the countries with
economies in transition,

Emphasizing the importance of international cooperation in supporting the
national efforts of developing countries in capacity-building in public
administration for development,

Acknowledging the importance of the activities in the framework of the
United Nations programme in public administration and finance for enhancing
efficiency of public administration, in particular in developing countries and
countries with economies in transition,

Acknowledging also the importance of exchanging views and experiences in
order to promote a better understanding of the role of public administration in
development and to enhance international cooperation in this field,

1. Takes note of the Tangier Declaration, 16/ adopted by the
Pan-African Conference of Ministers of the Civil Service, held in Morocco on 20
and 21 June 1994;

2. Decides to resume in March-April 1996 its fiftieth session in order to
examine the question "Public administration and development", exchange
experiences, review the activities of the United Nations in this field and make
recommendations, as appropriate;

3. Invites all States to participate actively in the resumed session and
to be represented at the highest possible level;

4. Requests the Group of Experts on Public Administration and Finance to
contribute, through the Economic and Social Council, to the work of its resumed
session, based on the experience gained in assisting developing countries and
countries with economies in transition in capacity-building in public
administration for development;

16/ A/49/495, annex.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 24

5. Requests the United Nations Development Programme and other relevant
United Nations organizations to contribute, through the Economic and Social
Council, to the work of its resumed session;

6. Invites interested non-governmental organizations to contribute, as
appropriate, to the work of its resumed session;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a consolidated report,
through the Economic and Social Council, to the General Assembly at its resumed
session, containing an analysis of the role of public administration in
development and recommendations for strengthening the role of the United Nations
in public administration and development for the benefit of interested
developing countries and countries with economies in transition;

8. Invites the regional commissions of the United Nations to consider in
1995 the role of public administration in development and to report, through the
Economic and Social Council, to the General Assembly at its resumed session;

9. Decides to recommend to the Economic and Social Council at its
organizational session to include in the provisional agenda of its substantive
session of 1995 a sub-item entitled "Public administration and development",
under the item "Programme activities";

10. Also decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fiftieth
session a sub-item entitled "Public administration and development", under the
item "Report of the Economic and Social Council".

* * *

50. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Documents relating to the Economic and Social Council

The General Assembly decides to take note of the following documents:

(a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Economic and Social Council
for 1994; 1/

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the Charter
of Economic Rights and Duties of States; 17/

17/ A/49/179-E/1994/82.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 25

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on resource mobilization for the
implementation of the regional action programme for phase II (1992-1996) of the
Transport and Communications Decade for Asia and the Pacific; 18/

(d) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Joint
Inspection Unit entitled "Working with non-governmental organizations:
operational activities for development of the United Nations system with
non-governmental organizations and Governments at the grass-roots and national
levels"; 19/

(e) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Executive
Director of the United Nations Population Fund on the United Nations Population
Award; 20/

(f) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the
open-ended working group on the review of arrangements for consultations with
non-governmental organizations; 21/

(g) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Joint
Inspection Unit entitled "Review and assessment of efforts to restructure the
regional dimension of United Nations economic and social activities". 22/

DRAFT DECISION II

The General Assembly, in accordance with paragraph 5 of its resolution
39/217 of 18 December 1984, approves the biennial programme of work of the
Second Committee for 1995-1996, as annexed to the present decision.

18/ A/49/437.

19/ A/49/122-E/1994/44 and Add.1.

20/ A/49/189.

21/ A/49/215-E/1994/99.

22/ A/49/423.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 26

ANNEX

Biennial programme of work for the Second Committee
for 1995-1996 23/

1995

Item 1. Report of the Economic and Social Council 24/

Target for World Food Programme pledges for the period 1997-1998

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council

International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the progress made
during the first half of the 1990s (General Assembly
resolution 45/181 of 21 December 1990) 25/

Prevention and control of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Director-General of the World Health
Organization on the prevention and control of acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (Economic and Social
Council resolution 1993/51 of 29 July 1993) 25/

Permanent sovereignty over national resources in the occupied
Palestinian and other Arab territories

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the economic and
social repercussions of the Israeli settlements on the
Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the
Arab population of the Syrian Golan (Economic and
Social Council resolution 1994/45 of 29 July 1994 and
A/C.2/49/L.15) 25/

23/ The Second Committee will, in accordance with established practice and
in pursuance of General Assembly decision 38/429, hold a general debate each
year at the beginning of its work.

24/ The list of questions and documentation under this item corresponds to
requests for reports from the General Assembly. The list will be finalized
after the Economic and Social Council completes its work in 1995.

25/ Report submitted to the General Assembly through the Economic and
Social Council.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 27

Preventive action and intensification of the struggle against malaria
in developing countries, particularly in Africa

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Director-General of the World Health
Organization on the implementation of General Assembly
resolution A/C.2/49/L.26/Rev.1 25/

Public administration and development

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council

Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolution A/C.2/49/L.78) 25/

Item 2. Macroeconomic policy questions

(a) Financing of development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the situation of
the potential sources of financing for development
(General Assembly resolution 48/187 of
21 December 1993)

(b) Long-term trends in social and economic development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the overall
socio-economic perspective of the world economy to the
year 2000 (General Assembly resolution 43/194 of
20 December 1988)

(c) External debt crisis and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.76

Item 3. Sustainable development and international economic cooperation

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.23 on the
programme for the Second Industrial Development Decade
for Africa

(a) Trade and development

Documentation Report of the Trade and Development Board, including
the information requested in General Assembly
resolutions A/C.2/49/L.72 and L.73 (General Assembly
resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964) 25/

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 28

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Secretary-General of UNCTAD on negotiations on
an international code of conduct on the transfer of
technology (General Assembly resolution 48/167 of
21 December 1993)

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 48/168 of
21 December 1993 on economic measures as a means of
political and economic coercion against developing
countries

Report of the Secretary-General on specific actions
related to the particular needs and problems of
land-locked developing countries (General Assembly
resolution 48/169 of 21 December 1993)

(b) Human settlements

Documentation Report of the Commission on Human Settlements,
including the report of the Commission on the
implementation of the Global Strategy for Shelter to
the Year 2000 (General Assembly resolutions 32/162 of
19 December 1977 and 43/180 and 43/181 of
20 December 1988) 25/

(c) Science and technology for development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on progress in the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 48/179
of 21 December 1993

(d) Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries for the 1990s

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the progress made
in the implementation of General Assembly resolutions
48/171 of 21 December 1993 and A/C.2/49/L.65

(e) Women in development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the effective
mobilization and integration of women in development
(General Assembly resolution 42/178 of
11 December 1987) 25/

(f) Human resource development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 48/205 of
21 December 1993

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 29

(g) Business and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on policies and
activities related to entrepreneurship, privatization,
demonopolization and administrative deregulation
(General Assembly resolution 48/180 of
21 December 1993)

(h) International cooperation for the eradication of poverty in developing
countries

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 47/196 of
22 December 1992

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.53

(i) United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II)

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the progress in the
work of the Preparatory Committee for the second
United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II) (General Assembly resolutions 47/180 of
22 December 1992 and A/C.2/49/L.61)

Report of the Preparatory Committee for the second
United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II) (General Assembly resolution 47/180)

(j) United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolution 48/60)

Item 4. Environment and sustainable development

Documentation Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme, including the Programme’s
activities in environmental monitoring (General
Assembly resolutions 2997 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972
and 48/192 of 21 December 1993) 25/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 48/174 of
21 December 1993 on the strengthening of the United
Nations Environment Programme

Report of the Secretary-General on products harmful to
health and the environment (General Assembly
resolution 34/173 of 17 December 1979) 25/

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 30

Note by the Secretary-General on international
conventions and protocols in the field of the
environment (General Assembly resolution 3436 (XXX) of
9 December 1975)

(a) Implementation of decisions and recommendations of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development

Documentation Relevant section of the report of the Economic and
Social Council on the work of the Commission for
Sustainable Development on its third session (General
Assembly resolution 47/191 of 22 December 1992)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on
Biological Diversity on the first meeting of the
Conference of the Parties to the Convention (General
Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.25/Rev.1)

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.30 on the
United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in
Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or
Desertification, Particularly in Africa

(b) Desertification and drought

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification and of
the medium-term and long-term recovery and
rehabilitation programme in the Sudano-Sahelian region
(General Assembly resolutions 3054 (XXVIII) of
17 October 1973, 32/172 of 19 December 1977, 40/209 of
17 December 1985 and 48/175 of 21 December 1993) 25/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.19 on the
observance of World Day to Combat Desertification and
Drought

(c) Sustainable use and conservation of the marine living resources of the
high seas

Documentation Report of the United Nations Conference on Straddling
Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks (General
Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.5)

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 46/215 of
20 December 1991 on large-scale pelagic drift-net
fishing and its impact on the living marine resources
of the world’s oceans and seas (General Assembly

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 31

decisions 48/445 of 21 December 1993 and
A/C.2/49/L.24)

Report of the Secretary-General on the steps taken and
on problems encountered in the implementation of
General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.20 on
unauthorized fishing in zones of national jurisdiction
and its impact on the living marine resources of the
world’s oceans and seas

Question for consideration for which no advance
documentation has been requested

Fisheries bycatch and discards and their impact on the
sustainable use of the world’s living marine resources
(General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.50/Rev.1)

(d) Protection of global climate for present and future generations of
mankind

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.9 on the
Conference of the Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the final
report of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee
for a Framework Convention on Climate Change (General
Assembly resolution 47/195 of 22 December 1992)

(e) Implementation of the outcome of the Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolution A/C.2/49/L.37/Rev.1)

Item 5. Operational activities for development

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council, including information on the United
Nations Development Programme and the Human
Development Report (General Assembly resolution
A/C.2/49/L.51)

(a) Triennial policy review of operational activities for development of
the United Nations system

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the triennial
policy review of operational activities undertaken by
the United Nations development system (General
Assembly resolution 47/199 of 22 December 1992 and
Council resolution 1994/33 of 28 July 1994) 25/

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 32

Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council

Question for consideration for which no advance
documentation has been requested

United Nations field offices (General Assembly
resolution 48/209 of 21 December 1993)

(b) Economic and technical cooperation among developing countries

Documentation Report of the High-Level Committee on the Review of
Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries
(General Assembly resolution 33/134 of
19 December 1978) 25/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of technical cooperation among developing countries in
the United Nations development system and on the
follow-up of General Assembly resolution 48/172 of
21 December 1993

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 48/173 of
21 December 1993 on cooperation between the United
Nations and the Southern African Development Community

Report of the Secretary-General on the state of
South-South cooperation (General Assembly resolutions
48/164 of 21 December 1993 and A/C.2/49/L.75)

Item 6. Training and research

United Nations Institute for Training and Research

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.59

Item 7. Agenda for development

Documentation No advance documentation requested (General Assembly
resolution A/C.2/49/L.70)

Item 8. Renewal of the dialogue on strengthening international cooperation for
development through partnership

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.45

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 33

Item 9. International migration and development, including the convening of a
United Nations conference on international migration and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.74

Item 10. Implementation of the programme of action of the International
Conference on Population and Development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.67 25/

1996 26/

Item 1. Report of the Economic and Social Council 27/

United Nations Population Award

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Executive Director of the United Nations
Population Fund on the United Nations Population Award
and Trust Fund (Economic and Social Council decision
1982/112 of 26 April 1982)

Item 2. Macroeconomic policy questions

(a) Implementation of the commitments and policies agreed upon in the
Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the
Revitalization of the Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Countries

(b) Implementation of the International Development Strategy for the
Fourth United Nations Development Decade

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolutions 45/199 of 21 December 1990, 47/152 of
18 December 1992, 48/185 of 21 December 1993 and
A/C.2/49/L.6)

26/ The programme of work and documentation list for 1996 will be updated
in 1995, taking into account the relevant decisions of the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session.

27/ The list of questions and documentation under this item is only
indicative of requests for reports from the General Assembly. The list will be
finalized after the Council completes its work in 1996.

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 34

(c) Net transfer of resources between developing and developed countries

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolution A/C.2/49/L.69)

Item 3. Sustainable development and international economic cooperation

Documentation Report of the United Nations Conference on Human
Settlements (Habitat II) (General Assembly resolution
47/180 of 22 December 1992)

(a) Trade and development

Documentation Report of the Trade and Development Board (General
Assembly resolution 1995 (XIX) of
30 December 1964) 25/

Report of the Secretary-General on strengthening
international organizations in the area of
multilateral trade (General Assembly resolution
A/C.2/49/L.31)

Report of the Secretary-General on specific measures
in favour of island developing countries (General
Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.68)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Secretary-General of United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.64 on the
transit environment in the land-locked States in
Central Asia and their transit developing neighbours

(b) Food and agricultural development

Documentation Report of the World Food Council 25/

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.62

(c) Integration of the economies in transition into the world economy

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolutions 48/181 of 21 December 1993 and
A/C.2/49/L.44)

(d) Industrial development cooperation

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 47/177 of
22 December 1992 on the Second Industrial Development
Decade for Africa, 1991-2000

/...



A/49/726
English
Page 35

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.39 on
industrial development cooperation

(e) Cultural development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and the Director-General of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on
progress in the implementation of the World Decade for
Cultural Development (General Assembly resolutions
41/187 of 8 December 1986, 44/238 of 22 December 1989,
45/189 of 21 December 1990, 46/157 of 19 December 1991
and A/C.2/49/L.33) 25/

Question for consideration for which no advance documentation has been
requested

Commodities (General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.29/Rev.1)

Item 4. Environment and sustainable development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 46/215 on large-scale
pelagic drift-net fishing and its impact on the living
marine resources of the world’s oceans and seas
(General Assembly decision 48/445)

(a) Implementation of the decisions and recommendations of the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development

Documentation Relevant section of the report of the Economic and
Social Council on the work of the Commission on
Sustainable Development on its fourth session (General
Assembly resolution 47/191 of 22 December 1992)

Item 5. Operational activities for development

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council

Item 6. Training and research

United Nations University

Documentation Report of the Council of the United Nations
University, including the information requested in
General Assembly resolution A/C.2/49/L.42 25/

Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolution A/C.2/49/L.42)

-----


