





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/49/618
28 November 1994
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Forty-ninth session
Agenda items 76 and 147

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION IN THE PEACEFUL USES OF
OUTER SPACE

QUESTION OF THE REVIEW OF THE AGREEMENT GOVERNING
THE ACTIVITIES OF STATES ON THE MOON AND OTHER

CELESTIAL BODIES

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Dieudonné NDIAYE (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1994, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its forty-ninth session the items entitled:

"International cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space";

"Question of the review of the Agreement Governing the Activities of States
on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies",

and to allocate them to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee).

2. The Fourth Committee considered the items at its 2nd and 18th to
22nd meetings, on 5 October and 7, 9, 10, 14 and 15 November 1994 (see
A/C.4/49/SR.2 and 18-22). The general debate on the items took place at the
18th to 20th meetings, on 7, 9 and 10 November.

94-47034 (E) 021294 /...



A/49/618
English
Page 2

3. For its consideration of the items, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space; 1/

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the
recommendations of the Second United Nations Conference on the Exploration and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (A/49/280).

4. At its 2nd meeting, on 5 October, the Committee decided to establish an
open-ended Working Group on International Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space, to be chaired by the delegation of Austria, to prepare the draft
resolution on item 76.

5. At the 18th meeting, on 7 November, the Chairman of the Fourth Committee
made an introductory statement on the items.

6. At the same meeting, the Chairman of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space introduced the report of that Committee. 1/

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.4/49/L.10

7. At the 22nd meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Austria
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Enlargement of the Committee on the
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space" (A/C.4/49/L.10) sponsored by his delegation.

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/49/L.10
by a recorded vote of 110 to 1 (see para. 11 below, draft resolution I). 2/
The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France,
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 20 (A/49/20).

2/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
France and the United States of America.

3/ Subsequently, the delegation of Mauritania indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 3

Republic, Latvia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian
Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: None.

B. Draft resolution A/C.4/49/L.11

9. At the 22nd meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Austria, on
behalf of the Working Group on International Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space, introduced a draft resolution entitled "International cooperation
in the peaceful uses of outer space, including the question of the review of the
Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial
Bodies" (A/C.4/49/L.11).

10. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/49/L.11
without a vote (see para. 11 below, draft resolution II).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

11. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Enlargement of the Committee on the Peaceful
Uses of Outer Space

The General Assembly,

Welcoming the fact that States from several of the regional groups have
expressed interest in becoming members of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space,

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 4

Noting the report of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, 1/

Decides to expand the membership of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space from fifty-three to sixty-one, that is, by not more than two seats
for each of the regional groups that had expressed interest in having a greater
representation in the Committee, and to ask the President of the General
Assembly, after consultations with the regional groups concerned, to appoint no
more that eight new members of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer
Space.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

International cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer
space, including the question of the review of the
Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the

Moon and Other Celestial Bodies

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 48/39 of 10 December 1993,

Deeply convinced of the common interest of mankind in promoting the
exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes and in continuing
efforts to extend to all States the benefits derived therefrom, and of the
importance of international cooperation in this field, for which the United
Nations should continue to provide a focal point,

Reaffirming the importance of international cooperation in developing the
rule of law, including the relevant norms of space law and their important role
in international cooperation for the exploration and use of outer space for
peaceful purposes,

Concerned about the possibility of an arms race in outer space,

Recognizing that all States, in particular those with major space
capabilities, should contribute actively to the goal of preventing an arms race
in outer space as an essential condition for the promotion of international
cooperation in the exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes,

Considering that space debris is an issue of concern to all nations,

Noting the progress achieved in the further development of peaceful space
exploration and application as well as in various national and cooperative space
projects, which contribute to international cooperation, and the importance of
further international cooperation in this field,

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 5

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General 4/ on the
implementation of the recommendations of the Second United Nations Conference on
the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, 5/

Having considered the report of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer
Space on the work of its thirty-seventh session, 6/

1. Endorses the report of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer
Space; 6/

2. Invites States that have not yet become parties to the international
treaties governing the uses of outer space 7/ to give consideration to
ratifying or acceding to those treaties;

3. Notes that, at its thirty-third session, the Legal Subcommittee of the
Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, in its working groups, continued
its work as mandated by the General Assembly in its resolution 48/39; 8/

4. Endorses the recommendations of the Committee that the Legal
Subcommittee, at its thirty-fourth session, taking into account the concerns of
all countries, particularly those of developing countries, should:

(a) Continue its consideration of the question of early review and
possible revision of the principles relevant to the use of nuclear power sources
in outer space;

(b) Continue, through its working group, its consideration of matters
relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space and to the character
and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and

4/ A/49/280.

5/ See Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Exploration
and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, Vienna, 9-21 August 1982 and corrigenda
(A/CONF.101/10 and Corr.1 and 2).

6/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 20 (A/49/20).

7/ Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the
Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial
Bodies (resolution 2222 (XXI), annex); Agreement on the Rescue of Astronauts,
the Return of Astronauts and the Return of Objects Launched into Outer Space
(resolution 2345 (XXII), annex); Convention on International Liability for
Damage Caused by Space Objects (resolution 2777 (XXVI), annex); Convention on
Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space (resolution 3235 (XXIX),
annex); Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the Moon and Other
Celestial Bodies (resolution 34/68, annex).

8/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 20 (A/49/20), sect. II.C.

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 6

means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit
without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union;

(c) Continue, through its working group, its consideration of the legal
aspects related to the application of the principle that the exploration and
utilization of outer space should be carried out for the benefit and in the
interests of all States, taking into particular account the needs of developing
countries;

5. Also endorses the recommendation of the Committee that the Legal
Subcommittee, at its thirty-fourth session, should suspend consideration in its
Working Group of the principles relevant to the use of nuclear power sources
pending the results of the work in the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee,
without prejudice to the possibility of reconvening its Working Group on that
item, if in the opinion of the Legal Subcommittee, sufficient progress was made
in the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at its session in 1995 to warrant
the reconvening of the Working Group;

6. Notes that deliberations on the question of the geostationary orbit
were undertaken by the Legal Subcommittee as reflected in its report, 8/ on the
basis of recent proposals which might provide a new and enhanced basis for
future work;

7. Endorses the recommendations and agreements concerning the
organization of work in the Legal Subcommittee;

8. Also endorses the recommendation of the Committee that the Chairman of
the Legal Subcommittee should, at its thirty-fourth session, conduct extensive,
open-ended informal consultations with all members of the Subcommittee on the
working methods and agenda of the Legal Subcommittee, including the
consideration of possible additional items for inclusion on the agenda as
outlined in the report of the Committee; 9/

9. Notes that the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee of the Committee
on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, at its thirty-first session, continued its
work as mandated by the General Assembly in its resolution 48/39; 10/

10. Welcomes the decision of the Committee to consider the matter of space
debris, and the addition of a new item, entitled "Space debris", on the agenda
of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee;

11. Notes that under that item the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee
considered scientific research relating to space debris, including relevant
studies, mathematical modelling and other analytical work on the
characterization of the space debris environment;

9/ Ibid., sect. II.E.5, and annex.

10/ Ibid., sect. II.B.

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 7

12. Endorses the agreement of the Committee that, at its next session, the
Scientific and Technical Subcommittee should focus its attention on the
acquisition and understanding of data on the characteristics of the space debris
environment, and that the Subcommittee should also at its next session develop a
continuing, deliberate, specific multi-year plan for its work on this agenda
item;

13. Also endorses the recommendations of the Committee that the Scientific
and Technical Subcommittee, at its thirty-second session, taking into account
the concerns of all countries, particularly those of developing countries,
should:

(a) Consider the following items on a priority basis:

(i) United Nations Programme on Space Applications and the coordination of
space activities within the United Nations system;

(ii) Implementation of the recommendations of the Second United Nations
Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space; 5/

(iii) Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellites,
including, inter alia, applications for developing countries;

(iv) Use of nuclear power sources in outer space;

(v) Space debris;

(b) Consider the following items:

(i) Questions relating to space transportation systems and their
implications for future activities in space;

(ii) Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the
geostationary orbit and of its utilization and applications,
including, inter alia, in the field of space communications, as well
as other questions relating to space communications developments,
taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing
countries;

(iii) Matters relating to life sciences, including space medicine;

(iv) Progress in national and international space activities related to the
Earth’s environment, in particular progress in the geosphere-biosphere
(global change) programme;

(v) Matters relating to planetary exploration;

(vi) Matters relating to astronomy;

(vii) The theme fixed for special attention at the 1995 session of the
Scientific and Technical Subcommittee: "Application of space
technology for education, with particular emphasis on its use in

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 8

developing countries"; the Committee on Space Research and the
International Astronautical Federation, in liaison with Member States,
should be invited to arrange a symposium, with as wide a participation
as possible, to be held during the first week of the Subcommittee’s
session, to complement discussions within the Subcommittee on the
special theme;

14. Considers, in the context of paragraph 13 (a) (ii) above, that it is
particularly urgent to implement the following recommendations:

(a) All countries should have the opportunity to use the techniques
resulting from medical studies in space;

(b) Data banks at the national and regional levels should be strengthened
and expanded and an international space information service should be
established to function as a centre of coordination;

(c) The United Nations should support the creation of adequate training
centres at the regional level, linked, whenever possible, to institutions
implementing space programmes; necessary funding for the development of such
centres should be made available through financial institutions;

(d) The United Nations should organize a fellowship programme through
which selected graduates or postgraduates from developing countries should get
in-depth, long-term exposure to space technology or applications; it is also
desirable to encourage the availability of opportunities for such exposure on
other bilateral or multilateral bases outside the United Nations system;

15. Endorses the recommendation of the Committee that the Scientific and
Technical Subcommittee should reconvene, at its thirty-second session, the
Working Group of the Whole to Evaluate the Implementation of the Recommendations
of the Second United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space, to continue its work;

16. Also endorses the recommendations of the Working Group of the Whole of
the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, as endorsed by the Committee and as
contained in the report of the Working Group of the Whole; 11/

17. Decides that, during the thirty-second session of the Scientific and
Technical Subcommittee, the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in
Outer Space should be reconvened, and invites Member States to report to the
Secretary-General on a regular basis with regard to national and international
research concerning the safety of nuclear-powered satellites;

18. Endorses the United Nations Programme on Space Applications for 1995,
as proposed to the Committee by the Expert on Space Applications; 12/

11/ A/AC.105/571, annex II.

12/ A/AC.105/555, sect. I.

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 9

19. Emphasizes the urgency and importance of implementing fully the
recommendations of the Second United Nations Conference on the Exploration and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space;

20. Reaffirms its approval of the recommendation of the Conference
regarding the establishment and strengthening of regional mechanisms of
cooperation and their promotion and creation through the United Nations system;

21. Expresses its appreciation to all Governments that have made or
expressed their intention to make contributions towards carrying out the
recommendations of the Conference;

22. Invites all Governments to take effective action for the
implementation of the recommendations of the Conference;

23. Requests all organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system and other intergovernmental organizations working in the field of outer
space or on space-related matters to cooperate in the implementation of the
recommendations of the Conference;

24. Invites the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
fiftieth session on the implementation of the recommendations of the Conference;

25. Notes that, pursuant to the request of the General Assembly contained
in paragraph 22 of its resolution 48/39, the Scientific and Technical
Subcommittee, at its thirty-first session, discussed the possibility of holding
a third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer
Space in the future, and that the Committee continued these discussions at its
thirty-seventh session with a view to promoting an early conclusion on the
matter by the Committee;

26. Agrees that the Third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space could be convened in the near future and also
agrees that, prior to recommending a date for the conference, there should be a
consensus recommendation on the agenda, venue and funding of the conference;

27. Recommends that the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, at its next
session, conduct a thorough analysis and define an agenda for such a conference,
and agrees that the Subcommittee should discuss a broad range of themes and
subjects that could be refined into a sharply focused and detailed agenda and
should also continue its examination of other means of achieving the goals set
for such a conference;

28. Invites interested Member States to submit additional ideas and
proposals for a third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful
Uses of Outer Space in time for their consideration at the next session of the
Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, and endorses the Committee’s request that
the Secretariat compile a document, in time for consideration at the next
session of the Subcommittee, containing the various ideas regarding the agenda
and organization for the conference submitted to the Committee;

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 10

29. Agrees that the discussions to be held by the Scientific and Technical
Subcommittee should provide the basis for a prompt decision by the Committee on
a recommendation to the General Assembly regarding the agenda, timing, funding
and organization of such a conference;

30. Recognizes the contribution of the First Asia-Pacific Conference on
Multilateral Cooperation in Space Technology and Applications, held at Bangkok
in 1994, the Ministerial Conference on Space Application for Development, held
at Beijing in 1994, and the second session of the regional Asia-Pacific Space
Agency Forum, held at Tokyo in 1994, towards promoting regional cooperation in
space activities, as well as the meetings mentioned in paragraph 13 of the
report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the recommendations of
the Second United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space; 3/ and calls upon the regional commissions to support those
initiatives;

31. Recommends that more attention be paid to all aspects related to the
protection and the preservation of the outer space environment, especially those
potentially affecting the Earth’s environment;

32. Considers that it is essential that Member States pay more attention
to the problem of collisions of space objects, including nuclear power sources,
with space debris, and other aspects of space debris, calls for the continuation
of national research on this question, for the development of improved
technology for the monitoring of space debris, and for the compilation and
dissemination of data on space debris, and also considers that, to the extent
possible, information thereon should be provided to the Scientific and Technical
Subcommittee;

33. Takes note with interest of the analytical report prepared by the
Secretariat containing updated information on the implementation of
Agenda 21 13/ by the United Nations system, information on activities of the
Programme on Space Applications related to environment and development, and
suggestions as to how the activities of the Programme on Space Applications in
this area might be expanded; 14/

34. Endorses the agreement of the Committee that it would request the
Commission on Sustainable Development to bring to the attention of its members
the valuable role of space technology and applications in implementing
sustainable development programmes;

35. Urges all States, in particular those with major space capabilities,
to contribute actively to the goal of preventing an arms race in outer space as

13/ Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1 (Vol. I,
Vol. I/Corr.1, Vol. II, Vol. III and Vol. III/Corr.1)) (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by
the Conference, resolution 1, annex II.

14/ A/AC.105/547/Add.1.

/...



A/49/618
English
Page 11

an essential condition for the promotion of international cooperation in the
exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes;

36. Emphasizes the need to increase the benefits of space technology and
its applications and to contribute to an orderly growth of space activities
favourable to the socio-economic advancement of humanity, in particular that of
the people of the developing countries;

37. Takes note of the views expressed during the thirty-seventh session of
the Committee and during the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly
concerning ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes;

38. Requests the Committee to continue to consider, as a matter of
priority, ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes and to
report thereon to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session;

39. Also requests the Committee to continue to consider at its thirty-
eighth session its agenda item entitled "Spin-off benefits of space technology:
review of current status";

40. Requests the specialized agencies and other international
organizations to continue and, where appropriate, enhance their cooperation with
the Committee and to provide it with progress reports on their work relating to
the peaceful uses of outer space;

41. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on international
cooperation in space activities for enhancing security in the post-cold-war
era 15/ and calls upon the competent bodies to take into account its
contents;

42. Notes the recommendation of the Committee that the General Assembly,
at its current session, in considering whether to revise the Agreement Governing
the Activities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 16/ should
take no action at the present time;

43. Requests the Committee to continue its work, in accordance with the
present resolution, to consider, as appropriate, new projects in outer space
activities, and to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fiftieth
session, including its views on which subjects should be studied in the future.

-----

15/ A/48/221.

16/ Resolution 34/68, annex.


