


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/627
10 November 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 104

RIGHT OF PEOPLES TO SELF-DETERMINATION

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ahmed Yousif MOHAMED (Sudan)

                                  I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fiftieth session the item entitled "Right of peoples to self-determination"
and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Third Committee considered the item, jointly with item 103, at its
3rd to 8th, 15th and 18th meetings, from 9 to 12 and on 19 October and
2 November 1995. An account of the Committee's discussion of the item is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/50/SR.3-8, 15 and 18).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General (A/50/485);

(b) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the question of the use of
mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of
the right of peoples to self-determination (A/50/390);

(c) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting three letters addressed to
the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the use of
mercenaries (A/50/390/Add.1);

95-35005 (E) 201195 /...



A/50/627
English
Page 2

(d) Note verbale dated 5 September 1995 from the Chargé d'affaires a.i. of
the Permanent Mission of Trinidad and Tobago to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General, transmitting documents of the inaugural Summit of the
Association of Caribbean States, held at Port-of-Spain on 17 and 18 August 1995
(A/50/407);

(e) Letter dated 28 September 1995 from the Permanent Representative of
Liechtenstein to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting a summary report on two international panel conferences organized
within the framework of the Liechtenstein Research Programme on Self-
Determination (A/50/492);

(f) Letter dated 13 October 1995 from the Chargé d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/50/570).

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 9 October, the Under-Secretary-General for Policy
Coordination and Sustainable Development addressed the Committee (see
A/C.3/50/SR.3).

5. At the same meeting, the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights on the use of mercenaries made an introductory statement (see
A/C.3/50/SR.3).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.4 and Rev.1

6. At the 15th meeting, on 19 October, the representative of Nigeria, on
behalf of Algeria, Bangladesh, Cuba, Egypt, Guinea, India, Kenya, the Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Uganda, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Use of mercenaries as a means to violate human rights
and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination"
(A/C.3/50/L.4), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 49/150 of 23 December 1994 on the use of
mercenaries as a means to violate human rights and to impede the exercise
of the right of peoples to self-determination,

"Recalling also all of its relevant resolutions, in which, inter alia,
it condemned any State that permitted or tolerated the recruitment,
financing, training, assembly, transit and use of mercenaries with the
objective of overthrowing the Governments of States Members of the United
Nations, especially those of developing countries, or of fighting against
national liberation movements, and recalling also the relevant resolutions
of the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and the
Organization of African Unity,

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 3

"Reaffirming the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of
the United Nations concerning the strict observance of the principles of
sovereign equality, political independence, territorial integrity of States
and self-determination of peoples,

"Alarmed and concerned about the danger that the activities of
mercenaries constitute to developing countries, particularly in Africa,
where democratically elected Governments have been sacked by mercenaries or
through mercenary activities,

"Convinced that it is necessary to develop and maintain international
cooperation among States for the prevention, prosecution and punishment of
mercenary activities and that it will be beneficial for Members to ratify
the International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and
Training of Mercenaries 1/ adopted by the General Assembly in 1989,

"1. Takes note of the report of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights 2/ on the use of mercenaries and mercenary
related activities to topple sovereign Governments and to undermine the
rights of peoples to self-determination despite General Assembly resolution
49/150;

"2. Reaffirms that the use of mercenaries and their recruitment,
financing and training are causes of grave concern to all States and
violate the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations;

"3. Urges all States to take the necessary steps and to exercise the
utmost vigilance against the menace posed by the activities of mercenaries
and to ensure by necessary legislative measures that their territories and
other territories under their control, as well as their nationals, are not
used for the recruitment, assembly, financing, training of and transit for
mercenaries for the planning of activities designed to destabilize or
overthrow the Government of any State or threaten the territorial integrity
of sovereign States, and to fight the national liberation movements
struggling against colonial domination and foreign intervention or
occupation;

"4. Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to consider
taking early action to sign or to ratify the International Convention
against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries;

"5. Urges all States to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur in the
fulfilment of his mandate;

"6. Requests the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat, as a
matter of priority, to publicize the adverse effects of mercenary

                        

     1/ General Assembly resolution 44/34, annex.

     2/ A/50/390 and Add.1.

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 4

activities on the right to self-determination and, where necessary, render
advisory services to States that are affected by the activities of
mercenaries;

"7. Requests the Special Rapporteur to report, with specific
recommendations, his findings on the new elements identified in the use of
mercenaries to undermine the rights of peoples to self-determination to the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session."

7. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Nigeria orally
revised it as follows:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the words "mercenary activities"
were replaced by the words "mercenary international criminal activities";

(b) A new fifth preambular paragraph was inserted, reading:

"Deeply concerned about the loss of life, the substantial damage to
property and the negative effects on the polity and economies of affected
countries resulting from mercenary aggression and criminal activities";

(c) The former fifth preambular paragraph was replaced by the following:

"Convinced that it is necessary for Member States to ratify the
International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and
Training of Mercenaries, adopted by the General Assembly in 1989, and for
Member States to develop and maintain international cooperation among
States for the prevention, prosecution and punishment of mercenary
activities";

(d) Operative paragraph 3 was revised to read:

"3. Urges all States to take the necessary steps and to exercise the
utmost vigilance against the menace posed by the activities of mercenaries
and to take necessary legislative measures to ensure that their territories
and other territories under their control, as well as their nationals, are
not used for the recruitment, assembly, financing, training and transit of
mercenaries for the planning of activities designed to destabilize or
overthrow the Government of any State or threaten the territorial integrity
and political unity of sovereign States, or to promote secession or fight
the national liberation movements struggling against colonial or other
forms of alien domination or occupation";

(e) In operative paragraph 4, the words "early action" were replaced by
the words "necessary action";

(f) In operative paragraph 6, the words "when requested" were inserted
before the words "where necessary".

8. At its 18th meeting, on 2 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/50/L.4/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.3/50/L.4, joined by Angola, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Ghana and Rwanda.

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 5

9. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria orally revised the
fourth preambular paragraph of the revised draft resolution as follows:

(a) The words "developing countries" were replaced by the words "peace and
security in developing countries";

(b) The words "and in small States" were inserted after the words "in
Africa";

(c) The word "sacked" was replaced by the word "overthrown".

10. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee read out the following
amendments to the revised draft resolution:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the words "mercenary activities"
were replaced by the words "mercenary international criminal activities";

(b) In operative paragraph 4, the words "early action" were replaced by
the words "necessary action".

11. Also at its 18th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.4/Rev.1, as orally revised and amended, by a recorded vote of 98 to
18, with 32 abstentions (see para. 22, draft resolution I). The voting was as
follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Moldova,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Hungary,
Iceland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Norway, Portugal, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Bulgaria, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Georgia, Greece,

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 6

Ireland, Israel, Kazakstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Monaco, New Zealand, Poland, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
Ukraine.

12. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Spain (on behalf of the European Union), South Africa, the
Republic of Moldova, France, the United States of America, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Ukraine, Nigeria and Japan (see
A/C.3/50/SR.18).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.7

13. At the 15th meeting, on 19 October, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of Albania, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, Cape
Verde, Djibouti, Egypt, Honduras, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Kuwait,
the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Thailand and the United
Arab Emirates, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Universal realization of
the right of peoples to self-determination" (A/C.3/50/L.7).

14. At its 18th meeting, on 2 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.7 (see para. 22, draft resolution II).

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of India
made a statement.

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.8

16. At the 15th meeting, on 19 October, the representative of Egypt, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Algeria, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, the Gambia,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Indonesia, Jordan, the Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates, the United Republic of
Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe, subsequently joined by Bahrain
and Kuwait, introduced a draft resolution entitled "The right of the Palestinian
people to self-determination" (A/C.3/50/L.8).

17. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Egypt orally
revised it as follows:

(a) In the third preambular paragraph, the words "the State of" were
deleted before the word "Israel";

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the word "may" was replaced by the word
"could".

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 7

18. At the 18th meeting, on 2 November, statements were made by the
representatives of Israel and Norway (see A/C.3/50/SR.18).

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.8,
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 134 to 2, with 14 abstentions (see
para. 22, draft resolution III). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland,
France, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Cameroon, Fiji, Gabon, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania,
Marshall Islands, Norway, Republic of Moldova, Russian
Federation, Rwanda, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Uruguay.

20. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Russian Federation, Turkey, the Islamic Republic of Iran,
Argentina, the United States of America, Japan and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
(see A/C.3/50/SR.18).

21. The observer for Palestine made a general statement (see A/C.3/50/SR.18).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

22. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 8

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

    Use of mercenaries as a means to violate human rights
    and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to

self-determination

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 49/150 of 23 December 1994,

Recalling also all of its relevant resolutions, in which, inter alia, it
condemned any State that permitted or tolerated the recruitment, financing,
training, assembly, transit and use of mercenaries with the objective of
overthrowing the Governments of States Members of the United Nations, especially
those of developing countries, or of fighting against national liberation
movements, and recalling also the relevant resolutions of the Security Council,
the Economic and Social Council and the Organization of African Unity,

Reaffirming the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations concerning the strict observance of the principles of sovereign
equality, political independence, territorial integrity of States and self-
determination of peoples,

Alarmed and concerned about the danger that the activities of mercenaries
constitute to peace and security in developing countries, particularly in Africa
and in small States, where democratically elected Governments have been
overthrown by mercenaries or through mercenary international criminal
activities,

Deeply concerned about the loss of life, the substantial damage to property
and the negative effects on the polity and economies of affected countries
resulting from mercenary aggression and criminal activities,

Convinced that it is necessary for Member States to ratify the
International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of
Mercenaries, 3/ adopted by the General Assembly in 1989, and to develop and
maintain international cooperation among States for the prevention, prosecution
and punishment of mercenary activities,

1. Takes note of the report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission
on Human Rights 4/ on the use of mercenaries and mercenary-related activities to
topple sovereign Governments and to undermine the rights of peoples to self-
determination despite General Assembly resolution 49/150;

2. Reaffirms that the use of mercenaries and their recruitment, financing
and training are causes of grave concern to all States and violate the purposes
and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations;

                        

     3/ General Assembly resolution 44/34, annex.

     4/ A/50/390 and Add.1.

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 9

3. Urges all States to take the necessary steps and to exercise the
utmost vigilance against the menace posed by the activities of mercenaries and
to take necessary legislative measures to ensure that their territories and
other territories under their control, as well as their nationals, are not used
for the recruitment, assembly, financing, training and transit of mercenaries
for the planning of activities designed to destabilize or overthrow the
Government of any State or threaten the territorial integrity and political
unity of sovereign States, or to promote secession or fight the national
liberation movements struggling against colonial or other forms of alien
domination or occupation;

4. Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to consider taking
necessary action to sign or to ratify the International Convention against the
Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries;

5. Urges all States to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur in the
fulfilment of his mandate;

6. Requests the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat, as a matter
of priority, to publicize the adverse effects of mercenary activities on the
right to self-determination and, when requested where necessary, to render
advisory services to States that are affected by the activities of mercenaries;

7. Requests the Special Rapporteur to report, with specific
recommendations, his findings on the new elements identified in the use of
mercenaries to undermine the rights of peoples to self-determination to the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Universal realization of the right of peoples
to self-determination

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the importance, for the effective guarantee and observance of
human rights, of the universal realization of the right of peoples to self-
determination enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and embodied in the
International Covenants on Human Rights, 5/ as well as in the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Welcoming the progressive exercise of the right to self-determination by
peoples under colonial, foreign or alien occupation and their emergence into
sovereign statehood and independence,

Deeply concerned at the continuation of acts or threats of foreign military
intervention and occupation that are threatening to suppress, or have already

                        

     5/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 10

suppressed, the right to self-determination of an increasing number of sovereign
peoples and nations,

Expressing grave concern that, as a consequence of the persistence of such
actions, millions of people have been and are being uprooted from their homes as
refugees and displaced persons, and emphasizing the urgent need for concerted
international action to alleviate their condition,

Recalling the relevant resolutions regarding the violation of the right of
peoples to self-determination and other human rights as a result of foreign
military intervention, aggression and occupation, adopted by the Commission on
Human Rights at its thirty-sixth, 6/ thirty-seventh, 7/ thirty-eighth, 8/
thirty-ninth, 9/ fortieth, 10/ forty-first, 11/ forty-second, 12/ forty-
third, 13/ forty-fourth, 14/ forty-fifth, 15/ forty-sixth, 16/ forty-seventh,

                        

     6/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1980,
Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/1980/13 and Corr.1), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

     7/ Ibid., 1981, Supplement No. 5 and corrigendum (E/1981/25 and Corr.1),
chap. XXVIII, sect. A.

     8/ Ibid., 1982, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/1982/12 and Corr.1),
chap. XXVI, sect. A.

     9/ Ibid., 1983, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/1983/13 and Corr.1),
chap. XXVII, sect. A.

     10/ Ibid., 1984, Supplement No. 4 and corrigendum (E/1984/14 and Corr.1),
chap. II, sect. A.

     11/ Ibid., 1985, Supplement No. 2 (E/1985/22), chap. II, sect. A.

     12/ Ibid., 1986, Supplement No. 2 (E/1986/22), chap. II, sect. A.

     13/ Ibid., 1987, Supplement No. 5 and corrigenda (E/1987/18 and Corr.1
and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

     14/ Ibid., 1988, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/1988/12 and Corr.1),
chap. II, sect. A.

     15/ Ibid., 1989, Supplement No. 2 (E/1989/20), chap. II, sect. A.

     16/ Ibid., 1990, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/1990/22 and Corr.1),
chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 11

17/ forty-eighth, 18/ forty-ninth, 19/ fiftieth 20/ and fifty-first
sessions, 21/

Reaffirming its resolutions 35/35 B of 14 November 1980, 36/10 of
28 October 1981, 37/42 of 3 December 1982, 38/16 of 22 November 1983, 39/18 of
23 November 1984, 40/24 of 29 November 1985, 41/100 of 4 December 1986, 42/94 of
7 December 1987, 43/105 of 8 December 1988, 44/80 of 8 December 1989, 45/131 of
14 December 1990, 46/88 of 16 December 1991, 47/83 of 16 December 1992, 48/93 of
20 December 1993 and 49/148 of 23 December 1994,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the right of peoples
to self-determination, 22/

1. Reaffirms that the universal realization of the right of all peoples,
including those under colonial, foreign and alien domination, to self-
determination is a fundamental condition for the effective guarantee and
observance of human rights and for the preservation and promotion of such
rights;

2. Declares its firm opposition to acts of foreign military intervention,
aggression and occupation, since these have resulted in the suppression of the
right of peoples to self-determination and other human rights in certain parts
of the world;

3. Calls upon those States responsible to cease immediately their
military intervention in and occupation of foreign countries and territories and
all acts of repression, discrimination, exploitation and maltreatment,
particularly the brutal and inhuman methods reportedly employed for the
execution of those acts against the peoples concerned;

4. Deplores the plight of the millions of refugees and displaced persons
who have been uprooted as a result of the aforementioned acts, and reaffirms
their right to return to their homes voluntarily in safety and honour;

5. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give special
attention to the violation of human rights, especially the right to self-

                        

     17/ Ibid., 1991, Supplement No. 2 (E/1991/22), chap. II, sect. A.

     18/ Ibid., 1992, Supplement No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. II, sect. A.

     19/ Ibid., 1993, Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

     20/ Ibid., 1994, Supplement No. 4 and corrigendum (E/1994/24 and Corr.1),
chap. II, sect. A.

     21/ Ibid., 1995, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1
and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

     22/ A/50/485.

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 12

determination, resulting from foreign military intervention, aggression or
occupation;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to report on this question to the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session under the item entitled "Right of
peoples to self-determination".

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

The right of the Palestinian people to self-determination

The General Assembly,

Aware that the development of friendly relations among nations, based on
respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples, is
among the purposes and principles of the United Nations, as defined in its
Charter,

Recalling the International Covenants on Human Rights, 23/ the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, 24/ the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 25/ and the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993, 26/

Noting the progress made in the Middle East peace process, in particular
the mutual recognition and the signing of the Declaration of Principles on
Interim Self-Government Arrangements 27/ on 13 September 1993 in
Washington, D.C., by the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of
Israel, as well as the ensuing implementation agreements, the last of which was
the interim agreement of 28 September 1995,

Affirming the right of all States in the region to live in peace within
secure and internationally recognized borders,

1. Reaffirms the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination;

2. Expresses the hope that the Palestinian people could soon be
exercising their right to self-determination in the current peace process;

                        

     23/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     24/ Resolution 217 A (III).

     25/ Resolution 1514 (XV).

     26/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

     27/ A/48/486-S/26560, annex.

/...



A/50/627
English
Page 13

3. Urges all States, specialized agencies and organizations of the United
Nations system to continue to support the Palestinian people in their quest for
self-determination.

-----


