


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/593
30 November 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 73

THE RISK OF NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION IN THE MIDDLE EAST

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Rajab SUKAYRI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "The risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East"
was included in the provisional agenda of the fiftieth session of the General
Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolution 49/78 of 15 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1995, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 78, 80 and 81. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 11th meetings, from 16 to 20 and on 25 and 26 October 1995
(see A/C.1/50/PV.3-11). Structured discussions of specific subjects within the
adopted thematic approach were held from 30 October to 3 November. 
Consideration of draft resolutions on the items took place at the 13th to
17th meetings, from 6 to 9 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.13-17). Action on the
draft resolutions was taken at the 18th to 29th meetings, on 10, 13 to 17, 20
and 21 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.18-29).

4. In connection with item 73, the First Committee had before it the report of
the Secretary-General on the risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East
(A/50/513) and a letter dated 2 February 1995 from the Permanent Representative
of Morocco to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/50/85-S/1995/152).

95-37008 (E) 011295 /...



A/50/593
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/50/L.19 AND Rev.1

5. At the 16th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Egypt, in his
capacity as Chairman of the Group of Arab States for the month of November 1995,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "The risk of nuclear proliferation in the
Middle East" (A/C.1/50/L.19), which was later also sponsored by Afghanistan.

6. On 14 November, Afghanistan, Egypt, in its capacity as Chairman of the
Group of Arab States for the month of November 1995, and Malaysia submitted a
revised draft resolution (A/C.1/50/L.19/Rev.1), which contained the following
changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

"2. Expresses deep concern at the continued existence in the Middle
East of unsafeguarded nuclear facilities;"

was deleted;

(b) Operative paragraph 3 was renumbered operative paragraph 2, and the
words "the only State in the Middle East with significant unsafeguarded nuclear
capabilities", before the words "and all other States" were deleted;

(c) The words "all their nuclear facilities" in operative paragraph 3 were
replaced by the words "all unsafeguarded nuclear facilities".

7. At its 26th meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted the sixth
preambular paragraph of draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.19/Rev.1 by a recorded vote
of 109 to 3, with 27 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman,
Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,

                        

     1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Guatemala stated that it had intended
to abstain, and the delegation of Thailand, that it had intended to vote in
favour of the sixth preambular paragraph.

/...



A/50/593
English
Page 3

Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen.

Against: Guatemala, India, Israel.

Abstaining: Bolivia, Brazil, Cambodia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, El Salvador,
Georgia, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Rwanda, Singapore, Suriname,
Swaziland, Tajikistan, Thailand, United States of America,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Zambia.

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.19/Rev.1 as a whole by a recorded vote of 51 to 4, with
88 abstentions (see para. 9). The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Chad,
China, Colombia, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Egypt, Fiji, Guinea, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, New
Zealand, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam,
Yemen.

Against: Guatemala, Israel, Lesotho, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Chile, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mauritius,
Monaco, Mongolia, Myanmar, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Tajikistan, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Zambia.

                        

     2/ Subsequently, the delegations of the Gambia, Guatemala and Lesotho
indicated that they had intended to abstain in the vote on the draft resolution.

/...



A/50/593
English
Page 4

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the relevant United Nations resolutions,

Taking note of the relevant resolutions adopted by the General Conference
at the International Atomic Energy Agency, the latest of which is GC(39)/RES/24,
adopted in September 1995, and noting the danger of nuclear proliferation,
especially in areas of tension,

Cognizant that the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the region of the
Middle East would pose a serious threat to international peace and security,

Aware of the importance that all nuclear facilities in the region be placed
under full-scope safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency,

Recalling the resolution on the Middle East adopted by the Conference of
the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons on
11 May 1995, 3/ in which the Conference noted with concern the continued
existence in the Middle East of unsafeguarded nuclear facilities, reaffirmed the
importance of the early realization of universal adherence to the Treaty and
called upon all States in the Middle East that had not yet done so, without
exception, to accede to the Treaty as soon as possible and to place all their
nuclear facilities under full-scope International Atomic Energy Agency
safeguards,

Recalling further the decision on principles and objectives for nuclear
non-proliferation and disarmament adopted by the Conference of the Parties to
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons on 11 May 1995, 4/ in
which the Conference urged universal adherence to the Treaty as an urgent
priority and called upon all States not yet party to the Treaty to accede to the
Treaty at the earliest date, particularly those States that operate
unsafeguarded nuclear facilities,

Encouraged by the recent positive developments in the Middle East peace
process, which would be further strengthened by States of the region undertaking
practical confidence-building measures in order to consolidate the
non-proliferation regime,

                        

     3/ NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I), annex.

     4/ Ibid., decision 2.

/...



A/50/593
English
Page 5

1. Welcomes the accession of the United Arab Emirates on
26 September 1995 to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;

2. Calls upon Israel and all other States of the region that are not yet
party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons not to develop,
produce, test or otherwise acquire nuclear weapons, to renounce possession of
nuclear weapons and to accede to the Treaty at the earliest date;

3. Calls upon the States of the region that have not yet done so to place
all unsafeguarded nuclear facilities under full-scope International Atomic
Energy Agency safeguards as an important confidence-building measure among all
States of the region and as a step towards enhancing peace and security;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "The risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle
East".

-----


