


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/591
29 November 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 71

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDING DOCUMENT OF THE
TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Rajb SUKAYRI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly:

"(a) United Nations Disarmament fellowship, training and advisory
services;

"(b) Regional confidence-building measures;

"(c) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa,
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and
the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament
and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean;

"(d) Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons"

was included in the provisional agenda of the fiftieth session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 49/76 A to E of 15 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

95-37805 (E) 081295 /...



A/50/591
English
Page 2

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1995, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 78, 80 and 81. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 11th meetings, from 16 to 20 and on 25 and 26 October 1995
(see A/C.1/50/PV.3-11). Structured discussions of specific subjects within the
adopted thematic approach were held from 30 October to 3 November. 
Consideration of draft resolutions on the items took place at the 13th to 17th
meetings, from 6 to 9 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.13-17). Action on the draft
resolutions was taken at the 18th to 29th meetings, on 10, 13 to 17, 20 and
21 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.18-29).

4. In connection with item 71, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; 1/

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; 2/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace
and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean
(A/50/380);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on regional confidence-building
measures (A/50/474);

(e) Letter dated 26 July 1995 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/50/317-
S/1995/627);

(f) Letter dated 20 September 1995 from the Permanent Representative of
Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/50/470);

(g) Letter dated 6 October 1995 from the Permanent Representative of
Belarus to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/50/524).

                        

     1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement
No. 27 (A/50/27).

     2/ Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/50/42).

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 3

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.11

5. At the 17th meeting, on 9 November 1995, the representative of Nigeria, on
behalf of Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Cuba, Germany,
Greece, Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Peru, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation,
Senegal, South Africa, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, the United States of America and
Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled "United Nations disarmament
fellowship, training and advisory services" (A/C.1/50/L.11), which was later
also sponsored by Argentina, Bangladesh, Cape Verde, China, Ethiopia, Guinea,
Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Kazakstan, Kenya, Mali, Mongolia,
Myanmar, Papua New Guinea and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.

6. At its 18th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.11 without a vote (see para. 19, draft resolution A).

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.20 and Rev.1

7. At the 16th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of the Congo, in his
capacity as Chairman of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on
Security Questions in Central Africa, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Regional confidence-building measures" (A/C.1/50/L.20), which was later also
sponsored by Cape Verde.

8. On 9 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/50/L.20/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

"2. Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-
building measures at the regional and subregional levels in order to ease
internal tensions and conflicts and to further disarmament,
non-proliferation and the peaceful settlement of disputes in Central
Africa;"

was revised to read:

"2. Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-
building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to ease
tensions and conflicts in the subregion and to further disarmament,
non-proliferation and the peaceful settlement of disputes in Central
Africa;"

(b) In operative paragraph 7, the words "peace-keeping operations", both
times that they appeared, were revised to read "peace operations";

(c) In operative paragraph 8, the words "peace-keeping operations" were
revised to read "peace operations";

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 4

(d) Operative paragraph 9, which had read:

"9. Requests the Secretary-General to facilitate the organization, as
soon as possible, of a programme to promote the training and preparation of
units specializing in peace-keeping operations in the member countries of
the Standing Advisory Committee;"

was revised to read:

"9. Requests Member States and governmental and non-governmental
organizations to promote and to facilitate the holding of a training
programme on peace operations in the subregion with a view to strengthening
the capacity of the units specializing in peace operations in the armed
forces of the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee;"

9. On 17 November, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of
the General Assembly, the Secretary-General submitted a statement
(A/C.1/50/L.61), of the programme budget implications of draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.20/Rev.1.

10. At its 28th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.20/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 19, draft resolution B).

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.24

11. At the 16th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Peru, on behalf
of Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mongolia, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, South Africa (on behalf of the members of the Group of
African States), Suriname, Uruguay and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa and
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin
America and the Caribbean" (A/C.1/50/L.24), which was later also sponsored by
Japan, Bangladesh, Cuba, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago.

12. At its 26th meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.24 without a vote (see para. 19, draft resolution C).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.31 and Rev.1

13. At the 14th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Mongolia, on
behalf of Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, Japan, the Lao People's Democratic
Republic, the Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Peru, the Philippines,
the Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Viet Nam, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Asia and the Pacific" (A/C.1/50/L.31), which was later also sponsored by
Afghanistan, Australia, Brunei Darussalam and New Zealand.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 5

14. On 13 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/50/L.31/Rev.1), which contained the following change: operative
paragraph 7, which had read:

"7. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary support
to the Regional Centre in carrying out its programme of activities;"

was revised to read:

"7. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary support,
within existing resources, to the Regional Centre in carrying out its
programme of activities;".

15. At its 26th meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted operative
paragraph 4 of draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.31/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 143 to
none, with 3 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, The former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

                        

     3/ Subsequently, the delegation of Benin indicated that, had it been
present at the time of the vote, it would have voted in favour of the draft
resolution.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 6

Against: None.

Abstaining: China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, India.

16. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.31/Rev.1 as a whole without a vote (see para. 19, draft
resolution D).

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.47

17. At the 16th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of India, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Colombia,
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Haiti,
India, Indonesia, Kenya, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, the
Philippines, the Sudan and Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons", which was later
also sponsored by Malawi and Iran (Islamic Republic of). 

18. At its 18th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.47 by a recorded vote of 95 to 26, with 26 abstentions (see para. 19,
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows: 4/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Côte
d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan,
Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy,
Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mauritania, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, United

                        

     4/ Subsequently, the delegation of Afghanistan indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 7

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Ireland, Israel,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Malta, New Zealand, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovenia,
Swaziland, Sweden, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Ukraine.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

19. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

A

United Nations disarmament fellowship, training
and advisory services

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 5/ the first special session
devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowships on disarmament,
as well as its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, 6/ the second special session
devoted to disarmament, in which it decided, inter alia, to continue the
programme,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme has already trained an
appreciable number of public officials selected from geographical regions
represented in the United Nations system, most of whom are now in positions of
responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs in their respective countries
or Governments,

Recalling all the annual resolutions on the matter since the thirty-seventh
session of the General Assembly, in 1982, including resolution 49/76 B of
15 December 1994,

Noting also with satisfaction that the programme, as designed, continues to
enable an increased number of public officials, particularly from the developing
countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of disarmament,

                        

     5/ Resolution S-10/2.

     6/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 8

Believing that the forms of assistance available to Member States,
particularly to developing countries, under the programme will enhance the
capabilities of their officials to follow ongoing deliberations and negotiations
on disarmament, both bilateral and multilateral,

1. Reaffirms its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly and the report
of the Secretary-General 7/ approved by the Assembly in resolution 33/71 E of
14 December 1978;

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Germany and Japan for
inviting the 1995 fellows to study selected activities in the field of
disarmament, thereby contributing to the fulfilment of the overall objectives of
the programme;

3. Commends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the
programme has continued to be carried out;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue the implementation of the
Geneva-based programme within existing resources and to report thereon to the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and
advisory services".

B

Regional confidence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

Bearing in mind the guidelines for general and complete disarmament adopted
at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to disarmament,

Recalling its resolutions 43/78 H and 43/85 of 7 December 1988, 44/21 of
15 November 1989, 45/58 M of 4 December 1990, 46/37 B of 6 December 1991,
47/53 F of 15 December 1992, 48/76 A of 16 December 1993 and 49/76 C of
15 December 1994,

Considering the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building
measures taken at the initiative and with the participation of all States
concerned and taking into account the specific characteristics of each region,
in that they can contribute to regional disarmament and to international
security, in accordance with the principles of the Charter,

                        

     7/ A/33/305.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 9

Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional
disarmament, can be devoted to economic and social development and to the
protection of the environment for the benefit of all peoples, in particular
those of the developing countries,

Bearing in mind the establishment by the Secretary-General on 28 May 1992
of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the
purpose of which is to encourage arms limitation, disarmament, non-proliferation
and development in the subregion,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on regional
confidence-building measures, 8/ which deals with the sixth and seventh meetings
of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, held
at Brazzaville in March and August 1995;

2. Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-
building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to ease tensions
and conflicts in the subregion and to further disarmament, non-proliferation and
the peaceful settlement of disputes in Central Africa;

3. Also reaffirms its support for the programme of work of the Standing
Advisory Committee adopted at the organizational meeting of the Committee held
at Yaoundé in July 1992;

4. Takes note of the Brazzaville Declaration on Cooperation for Peace and
Security in Central Africa 9/ and urges the States members of the Standing
Advisory Committee to implement it promptly;

5. Notes the readiness of the States members of the Standing Advisory
Committee to reduce the military forces, equipment and budgets in the subregion
and to continue reviewing the studies carried out on the subject with a view to
reaching agreements to that end;

6. Welcomes the initialling of the Non-Aggression Pact between the States
members of the Standing Advisory Committee, which is likely to contribute to the
prevention of conflicts and to confidence-building in the subregion, and
encourages those States to sign the Pact as soon as possible;

7. Welcomes with satisfaction the decision by the States members of the
Standing Advisory Committee to participate in peace operations of the United
Nations and the Organization of African Unity and, to that end, to establish
units specializing in peace operations within their respective armed forces;

8. Also welcomes with satisfaction the participation of some of the
States members of the Standing Advisory Committee in the peace operations
deployed in the subregion;

                        

     8/ A/50/474.

     9/ Ibid., annex I.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 10

9. Requests Member States and governmental and non-governmental
organizations to promote and to facilitate the holding of a training programme
on peace operations in the subregion with a view to strengthening the capacity
of the units specializing in peace operations in the armed forces of the States
members of the Standing Advisory Committee;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide assistance to
the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee and to establish a trust
fund to which Member States and governmental and non-governmental organizations
may make additional voluntary contributions for the implementation of the
programme of work of the Committee;

11. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its fifty-first session a report on the implementation of the present
resolution;

12. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "Regional confidence-building measures".

C

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa
and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and 

Development in Latin America and the Caribbean

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41/60 D of
3 December 1986, 42/39 J of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 D of 7 December 1988 on
the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, 41/60 J
of 3 December 1986, 42/39 K of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 H of 7 December 1988
on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in
Latin America and the Caribbean, and 45/59 E of 4 December 1990 and 46/37 F of
9 December 1991 on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Africa, the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia
and the Pacific and the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament
and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean,

Reaffirming its resolutions 46/36 F of 6 December 1991 and 47/52 G of
9 December 1992 on regional disarmament, including confidence-building measures,

Recalling its resolutions 48/76 E of 16 December 1993 and 49/76 D of
15 December 1994 on the regional disarmament centres,

Mindful of the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the
United Nations stipulating that a function of the General Assembly is to
consider the general principles of cooperation in the maintenance of
international peace and security, including the principles governing disarmament
and arms limitation,

Bearing in mind that the changed international environment has created new
opportunities for the pursuit of disarmament, as well as posed new challenges,

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 11

Convinced that the initiatives and activities mutually agreed upon by
Member States of the respective regions aimed at fostering mutual confidence and
security, as well as the implementation and coordination of regional activities
under the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme, would encourage and
facilitate the development of effective measures of confidence-building, arms
limitation and disarmament in these regions,

Welcoming the programme of activities carried out by the regional centres,
which have contributed substantially to understanding and cooperation among the
States in each particular region and have thereby strengthened the role assigned
to each regional centre in the areas of peace, disarmament and development,

Bearing in mind the importance of education for peace, disarmament and
development for understanding and cooperation among States and for the promotion
of international peace and security,

Recognizing with concern the financial situation of the regional centres as
described in the 1994 report of the Secretary-General on the activities of the
regional centres, 10/

Underlining, therefore, the need to provide the centres with financial
viability and stability so as to facilitate the effective planning and
implementation of their respective programmes of activities,

Expressing its gratitude to the Member States, international governmental
and non-governmental organizations and foundations that have, so far,
contributed to the trust funds of the regional centres in Africa and Latin
America and the Caribbean,

1. Commends the activities being carried out by the regional centres in
identifying and broadening the understanding of pressing disarmament and
security issues and exploring optimum solutions under given specific conditions
prevailing in each region, in accordance with their mandates;

2. Reaffirms its strong support for the further operation and
strengthening of the two regional centres and encourages them to continue
intensifying their efforts in promoting cooperation with subregional and
regional organizations and among the States in their respective regions to
facilitate the development of effective measures of confidence-building, arms
limitation and disarmament, with a view to promoting peace and security;

3. Also encourages further use of the potential of the regional centres
to maintain the increased interest in and momentum for revitalization of the
Organization to meet the challenges of a new phase of international relations in
order to fulfil the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
related to peace, disarmament and development, taking into account the
guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to disarmament within the

                        

     10/ A/49/389.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 12

context of global security as adopted by the Disarmament Commission at its 1993
substantive session; 11/

4. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in consultation
with the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, to promote the development of activities within the
programmes of the United Nations regional disarmament centres related to
education for disarmament;

5. Strongly appeals once again to Member States, as well as to
international governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations,
to make more substantial voluntary contributions in order to revitalize the two
centres, strengthen their programmes of activities and facilitate the effective
implementation of those programmes;

6. Requests the Secretary-General, in the light of the current financial
situation of the two centres, to explore new alternative ways of financial
resources and to continue to provide all necessary support to the regional
centres in fulfilling their mandates;

7. Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the directors of
the two regional centres are, as far as possible, locally based in order to
revitalize the activities in the centres;

8. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-first session on his efforts to seek new alternative
sources of financing for the two regional centres and on the implementation of
the present resolution;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace,
Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean".

D

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia and the Pacific

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 39/63 J of 12 December 1984, in which it requested
the Secretary-General to provide assistance to such Member States in the regions
concerned as might request it with a view to establishing regional and
institutional arrangements for the implementation of the World Disarmament
Campaign, on the basis of existing resources and of voluntary contributions that
Member States might make to that end,

                        

     11/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42), annex II.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 13

Recalling also its resolution 42/39 D of 30 November 1987, by which it
established the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Asia, with headquarters at Kathmandu and with the mandate of providing, on
request, substantive support for the initiatives and other activities mutually
agreed upon by the Member States of the Asian region for the implementation of
measures for peace and disarmament, through appropriate utilization of available
resources,

Mindful of its resolution 44/117 F of 15 December 1989, in which it decided
to rename the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia
as the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the
Pacific,

Commending the useful activities carried out by the Regional Centre in
encouraging regional and subregional dialogue for the enhancement of openness,
transparency and confidence-building, as well as the promotion of disarmament
and security through the organization of regional meetings, which has come to be
widely known within the Asia-Pacific region as the "Kathmandu process",

Noting that trends in the post-cold-war era have emphasized the function of
the Regional Centre in assisting Member States as they deal with new security
concerns and disarmament issues emerging in the region,

Noting also the efforts of the Member States to respond to these concerns
and issues through the formulation of a common approach,

Appreciating highly the important role Nepal has played as the host nation
of the headquarters of the Regional Centre,

Recognizing the need for the Regional Centre to pursue effectively its
above-mentioned expanded function,

Expressing its appreciation to the Regional Centre for its organization of
substantive regional meetings at Kathmandu and at Nagasaki and Kanazawa, Japan,
in 1995,

1. Commends the important work carried out by the United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, with its headquarters
at Kathmandu;

2. Reaffirms its strong support for the continued operation and further
strengthening of the Regional Centre as an essential promoter of the regional
peace and disarmament dialogue in the Asia-Pacific region known as the
"Kathmandu process";

3. Decides that the Director of the Regional Centre at Kathmandu should
operate as before until a reliable means can be found to finance the operational
needs of the Regional Centre;

4. Recommends that the Regional Centre organize the scheduled regional
meetings at Kathmandu, Hiroshima, Japan, and other cities in 1996, within the

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 14

available resources voluntarily contributed by Member States and organizations
for that purpose;

5. Expresses its appreciation for the contributions received by the
Regional Centre;

6. Appeals to Member States, in particular those within the Asia-Pacific
region, as well as to international governmental and non-governmental
organizations and foundations, to make voluntary contributions in order to
strengthen the programme of activities of the Regional Centre and its
implementation;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary support,
within existing resources, to the Regional Centre in carrying out its programme
of activities;

8. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa, United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia and the Pacific and United Nations Regional Centre for Peace,
Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean".

E

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly,

Convinced that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious threat to
the survival of mankind,

Convinced also that a multilateral agreement prohibiting the use or threat
of use of nuclear weapons would strengthen international security and contribute
to the climate for negotiations leading to the ultimate elimination of nuclear
weapons,

Conscious that some steps taken by the Russian Federation and the United
States of America towards a reduction of their nuclear weapons and the
improvement in the international climate can contribute towards the goal of
complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 12/ it is stated that all States should
actively participate in efforts to bring about conditions in international
relations among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of nations in

                        

     12/ Resolution S-10/2.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 15

international affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared in its
resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 B of 14 December 1978, 34/83 G
of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 I of
9 December 1981,

Stressing that an international convention would be an important step in a
phased programme towards the complete elimination of nuclear weapons within a
time-bound framework,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its 1995
session, was unable to undertake negotiations on this subject,

1. Reiterates its request to the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiations, in order to reach agreement on an international convention
prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons under any circumstances,
taking as a possible basis the draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of
Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolution;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly on the results of those negotiations.

ANNEX

Draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use
of Nuclear Weapons

The States Parties to this Convention,

Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the
existence of nuclear weapons,

Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

Convinced also that this Convention would be an important step in a phased
programme towards the complete elimination of nuclear weapons within a time-
bound framework,

Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Have agreed as follows:

Article 1

The States Parties to this Convention solemnly undertake not to use or
threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

/...



A/50/591
English
Page 16

Article 2

This Convention shall be of unlimited duration.

Article 3

1. This Convention shall be open to all States for signature. Any State
that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in accordance with
paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any time.

2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory States. 
Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations.

3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deposit of instruments
of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the Governments of the
five nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article.

4. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of the Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

5. The depositary shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding States
of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument of
ratification or accession and the date of entry into force of this Convention,
as well as of the receipt of other notices.

6. This Convention shall be registered by the depositary in accordance
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

Article 4

This Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and
Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, who shall send duly certified copies thereof to
the Government of the signatory and acceding States.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Convention, opened for signature at
___________ on the ____________ day of ____________ one thousand nine hundred
and __________.

-----
 


