


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/609
13 November 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 88

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 e OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Allan BREIER-CASTRO (Venezuela)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fiftieth session the item entitled "Information from Non-Self-Governing
Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations"
and to allocate it to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth
Committee).

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 4 October 1995, the Fourth Committee decided to hold
a general debate covering agenda items 18, 88, 89, 90 and 12, and 91, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would
be considered separately. The general debate took place at the 5th to 7th
meetings, on 11 and 16 October.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 88 at its 2nd, 5th to 7th and 14th
meetings, on 4, 11 and 16 October and 3 November 1995 (see A/C.4/50/SR.2, 5-7
and 14).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 4 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee 

95-35351 (E) 171195 /...



A/50/609
English
Page 2

during 1995 and drew attention to chapter VIII of the report of that Committee
relating to item 88 (A/50/23 (Part IV)) 1/ containing, inter alia, the related
draft resolution submitted by the Special Committee for the consideration of the
Fourth Committee.

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
relating to the item (A/50/458).

6. At its 14th meeting, on 3 November, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 8 of chapter VIII of the report of the Special
Committee (A/50/23 (Part IV)) by a recorded vote of 121 to none, with 3
abstentions (see para. 8). The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Benin,
Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic
of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

                        

     1/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Fiftieth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/50/23).

     2/ Subsequently, the delegations of Botswana, the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea and the Philippines informed the Secretariat that, had they
been present at the time of the voting, they would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution.

/...



A/50/609
English
Page 3

7. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland made a statement (see (A/C.4/50/SR.14).

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
      DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

8. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolution:

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations 3/ and the action taken by the Special Committee
in respect of that information,

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General on the item, 4/

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee to study the information transmitted to the
Secretary-General in accordance with Article 73 e of the Charter and to take
such information fully into account in examining the situation with regard to
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960,

Recalling also its resolution of 49/39 of 9 December 1994, in which it
requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted
to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Stressing the importance of timely transmission by the administering Powers
of adequate information under Article 73 e of the Charter, in particular in
relation to the preparation by the Secretariat of the working papers on the
Territories concerned,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information

                        

     3/ A/50/23 (Part IV), chap. VIII.

     4/ A/50/458.

/...



A/50/609
English
Page 4

from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations; 3/

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of self-
government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 e of the
Charter with respect to that Territory;

3. Requests the administering Powers concerned to transmit or continue to
transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 e of
the Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and
constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum
period of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in
those Territories;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the
preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concerned;

5. Requests the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with established
procedures, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-first
session.

-----


