


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/50/L.25
21 November 1995

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 37

ZONE OF PEACE AND COOPERATION OF THE SOUTH ATLANTIC

Angola, Argentina, Benin, Brazil, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 
Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Gambia, 
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Namibia, Nigeria,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South 

Africa, Togo, Uruguay and Zaire:  draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986, in which it solemnly
declared the Atlantic Ocean, in the region between Africa and South America, the
"Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic",

Recalling also its subsequent resolutions on the matter, including
resolution 45/36 of 27 November 1990, in which it reaffirmed the determination
of the States of the zone to enhance and accelerate their cooperation in the
political economic, scientific, cultural and other spheres,

Reaffirming that the questions of peace and security and those of
development are interrelated and inseparable, and that cooperation for peace and
development among States of the region will promote the objectives of the zone
of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic,

Aware of the importance that the States of the zone attach to the region's
environment, and recognizing the threat that pollution from any source poses to
the marine and coastal environment, its ecological balance and its resources,

1. Reaffirms the importance of the purposes and objectives of the zone of
peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic as a basis for the promotion of
cooperation among the countries of the region;

95-36567 (E) 211195 /...



A/50/L.25
English
Page 2

2. Calls upon all States to cooperate in the promotion of the objectives
established in the declaration of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South
Atlantic and to refrain from any action inconsistent with those objectives and
with the Charter of the United Nations and relevant resolutions of the
Organization, particularly action which may create or aggravate situations of
tension and potential conflict in the region;

3. Takes note of the report submitted by the Secretary-General, in
accordance with its resolution 49/26 of 2 December 1994; 1/

4. Recalls the agreement reached at the third meeting of the States
members of the zone, held at Brasilia in 1994, to encourage democracy and
political pluralism and, in accordance with the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993, 2/ to
promote and defend all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to cooperate
towards the achievement of those goals;

5. Welcomes the progress towards the full entry into force of the Treaty
for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean
(Treaty of Tlatelolco), 3/ and the conclusion of a treaty on a nuclear-weapon-
free zone in Africa;

6. Expresses its appreciation for the efforts of the international
community, in accordance with Security Council resolution 1995/976 of
6 February 1995, aimed at contributing to an effective and lasting peace in
Angola on the basis of the "Acordos de Bicesse" 4/ and the Lusaka Protocol; 5/

7. Welcomes recent positive developments in the situation of Liberia,
including progress towards peace and national reconciliation in accordance with
the Abuja Agreement to supplement the Cotonou and Akosombo Agreements as
subsequently clarified by the Accra Agreement; 6/

8. Commends the efforts of Member States and humanitarian organizations
to render humanitarian assistance to Angola and Liberia, and urges them to
continue to provide and to increase such assistance;

9. Affirms the importance of the South Atlantic to global maritime and
commercial transactions and its determination to preserve the region for all

                        

     1/ A/50/671.

     2/ A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

     3/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.

     4/ S/22609, annex.

     5/ S/1994/1441, annex.

     6/ S/1995/742, annex.

/...



A/50/L.25
English
Page 3

activities protected by international law, as reflected in the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea; 7/

10. Welcomes the offer by South Africa to host at Cape Town, on 1 and
2 April 1996, the fourth meeting of the States members of the zone;

11. Requests the relevant organizations, organs and bodies of the United
Nations system to render all appropriate assistance which States of the zone may
seek in their joint efforts to implement the declaration of the zone of peace
and cooperation of the South Atlantic;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the implementation of
resolution 41/11 and other subsequent resolutions on the matter under review and
to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, taking
into account, inter alia, the views expressed by Member States;

13. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item "Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic".

-----

                        

     7/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.


