


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/582
1 December 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 62

SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR IMPACT
ON INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Rajab SUKAYRI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Scientific and technological developments and their
impact on international security" was included in the provisional agenda of the
fiftieth session of the General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolution
49/67 of 15 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1995, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 78, 80 and 81. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 11th meetings, from 16 to 20 and on 25 and 26 October 1995
(see A/C.1/50/PV.3-11). Structured discussions of specific subjects within the
adopted thematic approach were held from 30 October to 3 November. 
Consideration of draft resolutions on the items took place at the 13th to 17th
meetings, from 6 to 9 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.13-17). Action on the draft
resolutions was taken at the 18th to 29th meetings, on 10, 13-17, 20 and
21 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.18-29). 

4. In connection with item 62, the First Committee had before it a note by the
Secretary-General on scientific and technological developments and their impact
on international security (A/50/409).

95-37799 (E) 041295 /...



A/50/582
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/50/L.48

5. At the 16th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of India, on behalf
of Bhutan, India, Indonesia, Lesotho, Nepal, Nigeria and Sri Lanka introduced a
draft resolution entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security and disarmament" (A/C.1/50/L.48), which was later also
sponsored by Bangladesh, Cuba, Guyana, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Kenya,
Malawi, Malaysia, Pakistan and the Philippines. 

6. At its 24th meeting on 16 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.48 by a recorded vote of 98 to 6, with 51 abstentions (see para. 7). 
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda,
Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: France, Israel, Luxembourg, Netherlands, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Samoa, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa,
Spain, Sweden, Tajikistan, The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, Uzbekistan.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

/...



A/50/582
English
Page 3

The role of science and technology in the context of
international security and disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recognizing that scientific and technological developments can have both
civilian and military applications and that progress in science and technology
for civilian applications needs to be maintained and encouraged,

Stressing the interests of the international community in the subject and
the need to follow closely the scientific and technological developments that
may have a negative impact on the security environment and on the process of
arms limitation and disarmament, and to channel scientific and technological
developments for beneficial purposes,

Cognizant that the international transfer of high-technology products,
services and know-how for peaceful purposes is important for the economic and
social development of States,

Recalling that the Final Declaration of the Eleventh Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Cartagena de Indias,
Colombia, 18 to 20 October 1995, noted that restrictions being placed on access
to technology through the imposition of non-transparent ad hoc export control
regimes with exclusive membership tended to impede the economic and social
development of developing countries,

Emphasizing that the internationally negotiated guidelines for the transfer
of high technology with military applications should take into account the
legitimate defence requirements of all States, while ensuring that access to
high-technology products and services and know-how for peaceful purposes is not
denied,

1. Affirms that scientific and technological achievements should be used
for the benefit of all mankind to promote the sustainable economic and social
development of all States and to safeguard international security, and that
international cooperation in the use of science and technology through the
transfer and exchange of technological know-how for peaceful purposes should be
promoted;

2. Invites Member States to undertake additional efforts to apply science
and technology for disarmament-related purposes and to make disarmament-related
technologies available to interested States;

3. Urges Member States to undertake multilateral negotiations with the
participation of all interested States in order to establish universally
acceptable, non-discriminatory guidelines for international transfers of high
technology with military applications;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to develop a database of concerned
research institutions and experts with a view to promoting transparency and
international cooperation in the applications of the scientific and

/...



A/50/582
English
Page 4

technological developments for pursuing disarmament objectives such as disposal
of weapons, conversion and verification, among others;

5. Encourages the United Nations to contribute, within existing mandates,
to promoting the application of science and technology for peaceful purposes;

6. Invites all Member States to communicate to the Secretary-General
their views and assessment;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session an item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security and disarmament".

-----


