


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/589
30 November 1995

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 69

PREVENTION OF AN ARMS RACE IN OUTER SPACE

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Rajab SUKAYRI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Prevention of an arms race in outer space" was included
in the provisional agenda of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly in
accordance with Assembly resolution 49/74 of 15 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1995, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 78, 80 and 81. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 11th meetings, from 16 to 20 and on 25 and 26 October 1995
(see A/C.1/50/PV.3-11). Structured discussions of specific subjects within the
adopted thematic approach were held from 30 October to 3 November. 
Consideration of draft resolutions on those items took place at the 13th and
17th meetings, from 6 to 9 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.13-17). Action on the
draft resolutions was taken at the 18th to 29th meetings on 10, 13 to 17, 20 and
21 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.18-29).

4. The First Committee had no documents before it in connection with item 69.

95-36996 (E) 011295 /...



A/50/589
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/C.l/50/L.33)

5. At the 17th meeting, on 9 November 1995, the representative of Sri Lanka,
on behalf of Algeria, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria,
Sri Lanka, the Sudan and Ukraine submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Prevention of an arms race in outer space" (A/C.1/50/L.33), which was later
also sponsored by Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Kenya, Malaysia and Papua New
Guinea.

6. At its 21st meeting, on 15 November, the Committee voted on paragraphs of
draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.33 as follows:

(a) The nineteenth preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of
99 to 1, with 55 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) Jordan,
Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamihiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic
of Korea, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Austria, Bahamas,
Barbados, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Micronesia (Federated States
of), Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Suriname, Sweden,
Tajikistan, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland.

/...



A/50/589
English
Page 3

(b) Operative paragraph 8 was adopted by a recorded vote of 100 to 1, with
55 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Austria, Bahamas,
Barbados, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Micronesia (Federated States
of), Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Suriname, Sweden,
Tajikistan, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland.

(c) Operative paragraph 10 was adopted by a recorded vote of 91 to 1, with
63 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,

/...



A/50/589
English
Page 4

Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic
of Korea, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, South
Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Tajikistan, The
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago,
Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.33,
as a whole, by a recorded vote of 113 to none, with 46 abstentions (see
para. 8). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Georgia, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic
of Korea, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

/...



A/50/589
English
Page 5

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Austria, Bahamas,
Barbados, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Tajikistan, The former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Prevention of an arms race in outer space

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the common interest of all mankind in the exploration and use
of outer space for peaceful purposes,

Reaffirming the will of all States that the exploration and use of outer
space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, shall be for peaceful
purposes, shall be carried out for the benefit and in the interest of all
countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or scientific development,
and shall be the province of all mankind,

Reaffirming also provisions of articles III and IV of the Treaty on
Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of
Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 1/

Recalling the obligation of all States to observe the provisions of the
Charter of the United Nations regarding the use or threat of use of force in
their international relations, including in their space activities,

Reaffirming further paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 2/ in which it is stated that in order to
prevent an arms race in outer space further measures should be taken and
appropriate international negotiations held in accordance with the spirit of the
Treaty,

Recalling also its previous resolutions on this issue and taking note of
the proposals submitted to the General Assembly at its tenth special session and

                        

     1/ Resolution 2222 (XXI), annex.

     2/ Resolution S-10/2.

/...



A/50/589
English
Page 6

at its regular sessions, and of the recommendations made to the competent organs
of the United Nations and to the Conference on Disarmament,

Recognizing the grave danger for international peace and security of an
arms race in outer space and of developments contributing to it,

Emphasizing the paramount importance of strict compliance with existing
arms limitation and disarmament agreements relevant to outer space, including
bilateral agreements, and with the existing legal regime concerning the use of
outer space,

Considering that wide participation in the legal regime applicable to outer
space could contribute to enhancing its effectiveness,

Noting that bilateral negotiations, begun in 1985 between the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America, were conducted with
the declared objective of working out effective agreements aimed, inter alia, at
preventing an arms race in outer space,

Welcoming the re-establishment of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Prevention of
an Arms Race in Outer Space at the 1994 session of the Conference on
Disarmament, in the exercise of the negotiating responsibilities of this sole
multilateral body on disarmament, to continue to examine and identify, through
substantive and general consideration, issues relevant to the prevention of an
arms race in outer space,

Noting that the Ad Hoc Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer
Space, taking into account its previous efforts since its establishment in 1985
and seeking to enhance its functioning in qualitative terms, continued the
examination and identification of various issues, existing agreements and
existing proposals, as well as future initiatives relevant to the prevention of
an arms race in outer space, 3/ and that this contributed to a better
understanding of a number of problems and to a clearer perception of the various
positions,

Regretting the inability of the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish
the Ad Hoc Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space in 1995,

Emphasizing the mutually complementary nature of bilateral and multilateral
efforts in the field of preventing an arms race in outer space, and hoping that
concrete results will emerge from those efforts as soon as possible,

Convinced that further measures should be examined in the search for
effective and verifiable bilateral and multilateral agreements in order to
prevent an arms race in outer space,

                        

     3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/49/27), sect. III.D (para. 5 of the quoted text).

/...



A/50/589
English
Page 7

Stressing that the growing use of outer space increases the need for
greater transparency and better information on the part of the international
community,

Recalling in this context its previous resolutions, in particular
resolutions 45/55 B of 4 December 1990, 47/51 of 9 December 1992 and 48/74 A of
16 December 1993, in which, inter alia, the importance of confidence-building
measures was reaffirmed as means conducive to ensuring the attainment of the
objective of the prevention of an arms race in outer space,

Conscious of the benefits of confidence- and security-building measures in
the military field,

Recognizing that there has been agreement in the Ad Hoc Committee that the
conclusion of an international agreement or agreements to prevent an arms race
in outer space remained the fundamental task of the Committee and that the
concrete proposals on confidence-building measures could form an integral part
of such agreements,

1. Reaffirms the importance and urgency of preventing an arms race in
outer space and the readiness of all States to contribute to that common
objective, in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty on Principles
Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space,
including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies;

2. Reaffirms its recognition, as stated in the report of the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space, that the legal
regime applicable to outer space by itself does not guarantee the prevention of
an arms race in outer space, that this legal regime plays a significant role in
the prevention of an arms race in that environment, that there is a need to
consolidate and reinforce that regime and enhance its effectiveness, and that it
is important strictly to comply with existing agreements, both bilateral and
multilateral;

3. Emphasizes the necessity of further measures with appropriate and
effective provisions for verification to prevent an arms race in outer space;

4. Calls upon all States, in particular those with major space
capabilities, to contribute actively to the objective of the peaceful use of
outer space and of the prevention of an arms race in outer space and to refrain
from actions contrary to that objective and to the relevant existing treaties in
the interest of maintaining international peace and security and promoting
international cooperation;

5. Reiterates that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, has the primary role in the
negotiation of a multilateral agreement or agreements, as appropriate, on the
prevention of an arms race in outer space in all its aspects;

6. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space in 1996 and to
consider the question of preventing an arms race in outer space;

/...



A/50/589
English
Page 8

7. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify its
consideration of the question of the prevention of an arms race in outer space
in all its aspects, building upon areas of convergence and taking into account
relevant proposals and initiatives, including those presented in the Ad Hoc
Committee at the 1994 session of the Conference and at the forty-ninth and
fiftieth sessions of the General Assembly;

8. Further requests the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish an
ad hoc committee with an adequate mandate at the beginning of its 1996 session
and to continue building upon areas of convergence, taking into account the work
undertaken since 1985, with a view to undertaking negotiations for the
conclusion of an agreement or agreements, as appropriate, to prevent an arms
race in outer space in all its aspects;

9. Recognizes, in this respect, the growing convergence of views on the
elaboration of measures designed to strengthen transparency, confidence and
security in the peaceful uses of outer space;

10. Urges the Russian Federation and the United States of America to
resume their bilateral negotiations with a view to reaching early agreement for
preventing an arms race in outer space and to advise the Conference on
Disarmament periodically of the progress of their bilateral sessions so as to
facilitate its work;

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "Prevention of an arms race in outer space".

-----


