


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

 Distr.
 GENERAL

 A/50/583
 28 November 1995
 ENGLISH
 ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 63

                 THE ROLE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE CONTEXT
                 OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, DISARMAMENT AND OTHER

RELATED FIELDS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Rajab SUKAYRI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields" was included in
the provisional agenda of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly in
accordance with Assembly resolution 49/68 of 15 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1995, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 78, 80 and 81. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 11th meetings, from 16 to 20 and on 25 and 26 October 1995. 
Structured discussions of specific subjects within the adopted thematic approach
were held from 30 October to 3 November. Consideration of draft resolutions on
the items took place at the 13th to 17th meetings, from 6 to 9 November. Action
on the draft resolutions was taken at the 18th to 29th meetings, on 10, 13 to
17, 20 and 21 November.

4. There were no documents submitted under item 63 to be considered by the
Committee.

95-36966 (E) 021295 /...



A/50/583
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/50/L.13

5. At the 15th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Canada, on behalf
of Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Lithuania, Norway, Peru,
Poland, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, South Africa,
Sweden, Turkey and Uruguay, introduced a draft resolution entitled "The role of
science and technology in the context of international security, disarmament and
other related fields" (A/C.1/50/L.13), which was later also sponsored by
Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Ecuador, Honduras, Kazakstan, New Zealand,
Nicaragua and The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.

6. On 10 November, Cuba, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar and
Pakistan submitted amendments (A/C.1/50/L.53) to draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.13
by which:

(a) The second preambular paragraph, which read:

"Recognizing the importance of continued multilateral dialogue on
means of promoting the transfer of technology for peaceful purposes while
ensuring that such technology is not diverted to non-peaceful purposes"

would be replaced by:

"Recognizing the importance of continued multilateral dialogue on
internationally agreed means of ensuring transfer of technology for
peaceful purposes while avoiding diversion of such technology to
non-peaceful purposes";

(b) Operative paragraph 1 (b), which read:

"(b) Exploring ways and means of further developing international
legal rules on transfer of high technology with military applications"

would be replaced by:

"(b) Exploring ways and means of developing multilaterally
negotiated, universally accepted and non-discriminatory agreements on
transfers of high technology with military applications".

7. At the 24th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, on behalf of the sponsors, informed the Committee that they
would not press for a vote on the amendments contained in document
A/C.1/50/L.53.

8. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada, on behalf of the
sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/50/L.13, announced the deletion of the second
preambular paragraph of the draft resolution.

9. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.13, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 148 to none, with
9 abstentions (see para. 10). The voting was as follows:

/...



A/50/583
English
Page 3

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, The former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, France, India,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Pakistan, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

10. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The role of science and technology in the context of international
security, disarmament and other related fields

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject of the role of science
and technology in the context of international security, disarmament and other
related fields, in which, inter alia, it recognized that scientific and
technological developments could have both civilian and military applications

/...



A/50/583
English
Page 4

and that progress in science and technology for civilian applications needed to
be maintained and encouraged,

1. Invites Member States to enhance bilateral and multilateral dialogue
on the role of science and technology in the context of international security,
disarmament and other related fields, with a view to:

(a) Ensuring implementation of relevant commitments already undertaken
under international legal instruments;

(b) Exploring ways and means of further developing international legal
rules on transfers of high technology with military applications;

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields".

-----


