


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/596
28 November 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 76

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE 
INDIAN OCEAN AS A ZONE OF PEACE

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Rajab SUKAYRI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as
a Zone of Peace" was included in the provisional agenda of the fiftieth session
of the General Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolution 49/82 of
15 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1995, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 78, 80 and 81. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 11th meetings, from 16 to 20 and on 25 and 26 October 1995
(see A/C.1/50/PV.3-11). Structured discussions of specific subjects within the
adopted thematic approach were held from 30 October to 3 November. 
Consideration of draft resolutions on the items took place at the 13th to 17th
meetings, from 6 to 9 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.13-17). Action on the draft
resolutions was taken at the 18th to 29th meetings, on 10, 13 to 17, 20 and
21 November (see A/C.1/50/PV.18-29).

4. In connection with item 76, the First Committee had before it the report of
the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean (A/50/29).

95-37559 (E) 011295 /...



A/50/596
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/50/L.27

5. At the 17th meeting, on 9 November 1995, the representative of Sri Lanka,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace"
(A/C.1/50/L.27).

6. At its 21st meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.27 by a recorded vote of 115 to 3, with 38 abstentions (see para. 7). 
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Côte
d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Turkey.

/...



A/50/596
English
Page 3

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace

The General Assembly,

Recalling the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace, contained
in its resolution 2832 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, and recalling also its
resolution 49/82 of 15 December 1994 and other relevant resolutions,

Recalling also the report of the Meeting of the Littoral and Hinterland
States of the Indian Ocean held in July 1979, 1/

Having considered the conclusions and recommendations reached by the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Indian Ocean during its sessions in 1995, 2/

Emphasizing the need to foster consensual approaches, in particular given
the prevailing international climate, which is conducive to the pursuit of such
endeavours,

Noting the initiatives taken by countries in the region to promote
cooperation, in particular economic cooperation, in the Indian Ocean area and
the possible contribution of such initiatives to overall objectives of a zone of
peace,

Convinced that the participation of all the permanent members of the
Security Council and the major maritime users of the Indian Ocean in the work of
the Ad Hoc Committee is important and would assist the progress of mutually
beneficial dialogue to develop conditions of peace, security and stability in
the Indian Ocean region,

1. Takes note of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian
Ocean; 2/

2. Considers that greater efforts and more time are required to develop a
focused discussion on practical measures to ensure conditions of peace, security
and stability in the Indian Ocean region;

________________________

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 45 and corrigendum (A/34/45 and Corr.1).

2/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session,
Supplement No. 29 (A/50/29).

/...



A/50/596
English
Page 4

3. Reiterates its conviction that the participation of all permanent
members of the Security Council and the major maritime users of the Indian Ocean
in the work of the Ad Hoc Committee is important and would greatly facilitate
development of a mutually beneficial dialogue to advance peace, security and
stability in the Indian Ocean region;

4. Requests the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee to pursue his dialogue
on the work of the Committee with the permanent members of the Security Council
and major maritime users of the Indian Ocean and to apprise the Ad Hoc Committee
of his consultations and other relevant developments at a meeting to be held in
1996 for that specific purpose, to take place before the 1997 regular session of
the Committee;

5. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to submit to the General Assembly at its
fifty-first session a report on the consultations held;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to render all necessary
assistance to the Ad Hoc Committee, including the provision of summary records;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session, the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian
Ocean as a Zone of Peace".

-----


