





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/617/Add.1
14 December 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 95 (a)

SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC
COOPERATION: TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT

Report of the Second Committee (Part II)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Basheer F. ZOUBI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on agenda item 95,
sub-items (a), (d) and (e) (see A/50/617, para. 3). Action on sub-item (a) was
taken at the 36th and 41st to 43rd meetings, on 16 November and 5, 8 and
12 December 1995. An account of the Committee’s consideration of the item is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.2/50/SR.36 and 41-43).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutions A/C.2/50/L.17 and L.73

2. At the 36th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of the Philippines
introduced a draft resolution entitled "International trade and development"
(A/C.2/50/L.17), submitted by the Philippines, on behalf of the States Members
of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and China, and
Colombia, on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, which read:

* The report of the Committee on this agenda item will be issued in
several parts, under the symbol A/50/617 and addenda.

95-40335 (E) 181295 /...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 2

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in
particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Countries, 1/ the International Development Strategy for the
Fourth United Nations Development Decade, 2/ the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, 3/ the Programme of
Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, 4/ the Cartagena
Commitment, 5/ Agenda 21 6/ and the various agreements that provide an
overall policy framework for sustained economic growth and sustainable
development in order to address the challenges of the 1990s,

"Recalling its resolutions 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964, as
amended, 7/ on the establishment of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development as an organ of the General Assembly, 47/183 of
22 December 1992 on the eighth session of the Conference and 48/55 of
10 December 1993 and 49/99 of 19 December 1994 on international trade and
development,

"Welcoming the appointment of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development,

"Noting the progress made by the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development in the implementation of the outcome of its eighth session,
in particular its contribution to trade and development,

"Emphasizing the importance of an open, rule-based, equitable, secure,
non-discriminatory, transparent and predictable multilateral trading
system,

1/ Resolution S-18/3, annex.

2/ Resolution 45/199, annex.

3/ Resolution 46/151, annex, sect. II.

4/ Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least Developed
Countries, Paris, 3-14 September 1990 (A/CONF.147/18), part one.

5/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, Eighth Session, Report and Annexes (United Nations publication,
Sales No. E.93.II.D.5), part one, sect A.

6/ Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the
Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8), resolution 1,
annex II.

7/ See resolutions 2904 A (XXVII), 31/2 A and B and 34/3.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 3

"Also emphasizing that a favourable and conducive international
economic and financial environment and a positive investment climate are
necessary for the economic recovery and growth of the world economy, in
particular for the sustained economic growth and sustainable development of
the developing countries,

"Welcoming the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of
multilateral trade negotiations at the Ministerial Meeting of the Trade
Negotiations Committee, held at Marrakesh, Morocco, from 12 to
15 April 1994, and noting that the Uruguay Round agreements 8/ represent
a historic achievement, which is expected to contribute to strengthening
the world economy and to lead to more trade, investment, employment and
income growth throughout the world and in particular to the promotion of
sustained economic growth and sustainable development in the developing
countries,

"Noting the assessment and recommendations adopted at the Mid-term
Global Review of the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the
Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, held in New York from 25 September
to 6 October 1995,

"Noting that the Uruguay Round agreements should lead to, inter alia,
a substantial liberalization of international trade, the strengthening of
multilateral rules and disciplines to ensure more stability and
predictability in trade relations, the establishing of rules and
disciplines in new areas and noting the founding of a new institutional
framework in the form of the World Trade Organization, with an integrated
dispute settlement mechanism which should prevent the application of
unilateral actions against international trade rules,

"Recognizing that the developing countries have made a major
contribution to the success of the Uruguay Round, in particular by
accepting the challenges of trade liberalization reforms and measures, and
stressing that there is a need for positive efforts designed to ensure that
developing countries, especially the least developed among them, secure a
share in the growth in international trade commensurate with their economic
development needs,

"Recognizing also that open subregional and regional economic
integration and cooperation processes among developing countries impart
substantial dynamism to global trade and enhance trade and development
possibilities for all countries,

"Recognizing further the possible adverse effects of the
implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements for the least developed
countries, African countries, small island developing States and the net
food-importing countries because of their weak physical and institutional

8/ Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of
Multilateral Trade Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT
secretariat publication, Sales No. GATT/1994-7).

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 4

infrastructure and their weak production and export structures and the need
to assist them, as appropriate, to fully benefit from the implementation of
the Uruguay Round agreements,

"Welcoming the generous offer of the Government of South Africa to act
as host for the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development,

"Recognizing the role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development in identifying and analysing new and emerging issues in the
international trade agenda and the expertise of the Conference in exploring
policy options and in building consensus on such issues, as well as its
specific role in providing a development perspective to international trade
debates and negotiations,

"Noting the importance of the inaugural Ministerial Conference of the
World Trade Organization, scheduled to take place in Singapore in
December 1996, for all countries for stock taking and for reviewing and
evaluating the implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements,

"Stressing the need to promote, facilitate and finance access to and
the transfer of environmentally sound technologies and the corresponding
know-how to the developing countries, on favourable terms, including
concessional and preferential terms, taking into account the special needs
of the developing countries in the implementation of Agenda 21,

"Taking note with satisfaction of the recommendation on trade,
environment and sustainable development made by the Commission on
Sustainable Development at its third session, 9/ and recognizing, in the
spirit of a new global partnership for sustainable development, the need
for a balanced and integrated approach to environment, trade and
development issues,

"1. Takes note of the reports of the Trade and Development Board on
the second part of its forty-first session 10/ and the first part of its
forty-second session, 11/ and calls upon all States to take appropriate
action to implement the outcome of those sessions;

"2. Takes note with appreciation of the Trade and Development Report,
1995, 12/ and recognizes the contribution such reports have made to the
international trade and development dialogue;

9/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 12 (E/1995/32), chap. I, paras. 47-72.

10/ A/50/15 (Vol. I).

11/ A/50/15 (Vol. II).

12/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.II.D.16.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 5

"3. Emphasizes the importance of follow-up and monitoring of the
implementation of the policies and measures contained in the Cartagena
Commitment, adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development at its eighth session, held at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia,
from 8 to 25 February 1992;

"4. Stresses the urgent need to continue trade liberalization,
including liberalization through a substantial reduction of tariff and
other barriers, in particular non-tariff barriers, to trade and the
elimination of discriminatory and protectionist practices in international
trade relations, and to improve access to the markets of all countries, in
particular those of the developed countries, in order to generate sustained
economic growth and sustainable development for the benefit of all
countries, in particular the developing countries;

"5. Stresses also the importance of the urgent and full
implementation of the agreements contained in the Final Act Embodying the
Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations and the
significance of the entering into force of the Agreement Establishing the
World Trade Organization on 1 January 1995; 13/

"6. Emphasizes the importance of the full implementation of the
provisions contained in the Final Act that confer special and differential
treatment for developing countries, including giving special attention to
the situation of the least developed countries and the net food-importing
countries;

"7. Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at
its ninth session to transmit its assessment of the Uruguay Round
agreements from a development perspective to the Ministerial Conference of
the World Trade Organization to be held in Singapore in December 1996;

"8. Endorses the provisional agenda for the ninth session of the
UNCTAD, approved by the Trade and Development Board during the second part
of its forty-first session; 14/

"9. Emphasizes the need for continued review and evaluation of the
implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements to ensure that the benefits
of the evolving multilateral trade system promote sustained economic growth
and sustainable development, in particular for the developing countries,
and notes the role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development and the World Trade Organization in this regard;

13/ See Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of
Multilateral Trade Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT
secretariat publication, Sales No. GATT/1994-7), vols. 1 and 27-31.

14/ A/50/15 (Vol. I), chap. I, sect. A.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 6

"10. Emphasizes also the significance of the Ministerial Conference
of the World Trade Organization in helping to set the future direction of a
rule-based multilateral trading system;

"11. Deplores any attempt to bypass or undermine multilaterally
agreed measures of trade liberalization, through resort to unilateral
actions, over and above those agreed to in the Uruguay Round, and deplores
the use of environmental and social concerns for protectionist purposes;

"12. Recognizes that, in order to promote sustained economic growth
and sustainable development, environment and trade policies should be made
mutually supportive and, in this context, takes note with satisfaction of
the ongoing work of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
on trade and environment, in particular, the outcome of its Working Group
on Trade and Environment, and notes the ongoing work of the Committee on
Trade and Environment of the World Trade Organization;

"13. Emphasizes the urgent need to implement the Programme of Action
for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, taking into account the
assessment and recommendations adopted at the Mid-term Global Review of the
Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries
for the 1990s, held in New York from 25 September to 6 October 1995;

"14. Also emphasizes the urgent need for technical and financial
assistance to African countries inter alia for evaluation of the impact of
the Final Act Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral
Trade Negotiations and to enable them to identify and implement adaptive
measures to enhance their competitiveness, including compensatory
arrangements, diversification and modernization of production and export
structures, and other measures, as appropriate;

"15. Strongly urges preference-giving countries to improve their
preferential schemes, and invites the 1996 Policy Review on the Generalized
System of Preferences to recommend concrete actions with a view to
offsetting the erosion of preferences, and its effects, in favour of the
concerned developing countries;

"16. Reaffirms the role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development as the focal point within the United Nations for the integrated
treatment of development and interrelated issues in the areas of trade,
finance, technology, investment, services and sustainable development, and
in this context, stresses that the creation of the World Trade Organization
has reinforced the need for the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development as a policy-oriented forum with a strong development
perspective;

"17. Decides to enable the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to discharge its mandate fully, through the provision of
adequate financial resources, making it a more effective instrument for
promoting development as well as addressing trade-related development
concerns of the developing countries;

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 7

"18. Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
to consider, in close cooperation with other competent organizations, new
and emerging issues on the international trade agenda with a view to
fostering international consensus-building among member States in such
areas as international competition policies, trade and environment, and
trade and investment and, in this context, to take advantage of its
specific experiences and its capacity to analyse the issues involved in an
integrated manner, with special emphasis on the development requirements
and implications; in this regard, the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development also has a role in preparing the groundwork for further
trade agreements in the appropriate forums;

"19. Calls upon the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to monitor closely developments in the international trading
system, in particular their implications for developing countries, and in
this context, to continue to analyse measures taken to implement the
Uruguay Round agreements at national and multilateral levels, the problems
encountered by developing countries with implementation at the national
level, and ways to make full use of new trading opportunities and special
provisions in their favour with a view to making policy recommendations in
these areas;

"20. Invites the secretariats of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development and the World Trade Organization to develop further
their working relationships, mutual cooperation and complementarity in
order to assist developing countries in implementing the Uruguay Round
agreements and in taking full advantage of opportunities arising therefrom,
to analyse the issues involved and to assist those countries in preparing
for ongoing and future trade negotiations;

"21. Emphasizes the importance to the international trading system of
the inclusion of all countries in multilateral trade agreements and that
developing countries that are not members of the World Trade Organization
should be adequately assisted in the accession process to that
organization;

"22. Requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
and invites the World Trade Organization, in accordance with their
respective mandates and competence and in close cooperation with other
competent United Nations bodies and the regional commissions, to address
trade and environment matters comprehensively and to submit, in
collaboration with the Commission on Sustainable Development, a report on
the question to the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session
of 1997;

"23. Also requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to continue its special role in the field of trade and
environment, including the conceptual framework, policy analysis and
formulations, and consensus-building, with a view to ensuring transparency
and coherence in making environmental and trade policies mutually
supportive;

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 8

"24. Further requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to focus and intensify its technical assistance in the light of
the Uruguay Round agreements, with the aim of increasing the capacities of
developing countries, especially the least developed countries, African
countries, small island developing States, and land-locked and transit
developing countries, so that they may participate effectively in the
international trading system;

"25. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a trust fund with
voluntary contributors to ensure full and effective participation of the
representatives of the developing countries, particularly the least
developed among them, at the ninth session of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development, and also calls upon the Administrator of the
United Nations Development Programme and donor countries to make such
contributions."

3. At the 43rd meeting, on 12 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Conor Murphy (Ireland), introduced a draft resolution entitled
"International trade and development" (A/C.2/50/L.73), which he submitted on the
basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.17, and
orally revised it as follows:

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, the words "various agreements" were
replaced by the words "various agreements and conferences";

(b) In the thirteenth preambular paragraph, the words "net food importing
countries" were replaced by the words "net food importing developing countries",
and the words "included in the Final Act" were replaced by the words "agreed in
the Final Act";

(c) In the fifteenth preambular paragraph, the date "4 May 1995" was
inserted after the words "decision 426 (XLII) of";

(d) In operative paragraph 8, the word "the" was deleted before the words
"ministerial conferences";

(e) In operative paragraph 20, the words "should be enabled" were replaced
by the words "should enable the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development";

(f) In operative paragraph 29, the word "their" was inserted before the
words "external trade".

4. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of the United States of America (see A/C.2/50/SR.43).

5. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.73,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 21, draft resolution I).

6. In view of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.73, draft resolution
A/C.2/50/L.17 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 9

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.18

7. At the 36th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of the Philippines,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77 and China, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Economic measures
as a means of political and economic coercion against developing countries"
(A/C.2/50/L.18).

8. At the 41st meeting, on 5 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Conor Murphy (Ireland), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on the draft resolution.

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.18
by a recorded vote of 79 to 27, with 19 abstentions (see para. 21, draft
resolution II). The voting was as follows: 15/, 16/

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua,
Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Republic of Moldova,
Slovakia, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Cyprus, Georgia, Greece, Kazakstan, Malta, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Spain, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey.

15/ The representatives of Nigeria and Tunisia stated that, had their
delegations been present during the voting, they would have voted in favour of
the draft resolution.

16/ At the 43rd meeting, on 12 December, the representative of Burundi
informed the Committee that he had intended to vote in favour of the draft
resolution, not to abstain.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 10

C. Draft resolutions A/C.2/50/L.19 and L.59

10. At the 36th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of the Philippines,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77 and China, as well as Kyrgyzstan and the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Specific actions related to
the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries"
(A/C.2/50/L.19), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling the provisions of its resolutions 44/214 of
22 December 1989, 46/212 of 22 December 1991 and 48/169 of
21 December 1993,

"Recognizing that the lack of territorial access to the sea,
aggravated by remoteness and isolation from world markets, and prohibitive
transit costs and risks impose serious constraints on the overall
socio-economic development efforts of the land-locked developing countries,

"Recognizing also that 16 of the land-locked developing countries are
also classified by the United Nations as least developed countries and that
their geographical situation is an added constraint on their overall
ability to cope with the challenges of development,

"Recognizing further that most transit countries are themselves
developing countries facing serious economic problems, including the lack
of adequate infrastructure in the transport sector,

"Recalling that measures to deal with the transit problems of land-
locked developing countries require closer and even more effective
cooperation and collaboration between those countries and their transit
neighbours,

"Welcoming the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea 17/ on 16 November 1994,

"Recognizing the important role played by bilateral cooperative
arrangements and regional and subregional cooperation and integration in
alleviating the transit problems of the land-locked developing countries
and improving the transit transport systems in land-locked and transit
developing countries,

"Recognizing also the importance of continuing the activities of the
regional commissions to improve the transit transport infrastructure in the
land-locked and transit developing countries,

17/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 11

"Noting the importance of strengthening the existing international
support measures with a view to addressing further the problems of land-
locked developing countries,

"1. Reaffirms the right of access of land-locked developing countries
to and from the sea and freedom of transit through the territory of transit
States by all means of transport, in accordance with international law;

"2. Also reaffirms that transit developing countries, in the exercise
of their full sovereignty over their territory, have the right to take all
measures necessary to ensure that the rights and facilities provided for
land-locked developing countries should in no way infringe upon their
legitimate interests;

"3. Calls upon both the land-locked developing countries and their
transit neighbours, in the spirit of South-South cooperation, including
bilateral cooperation, to implement measures to strengthen further their
cooperative and collaborative efforts in dealing with their transit
problems;

"4. Appeals once again to all States, international organizations and
financial institutions to implement, as a matter of urgency and priority,
the specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-
locked developing countries envisaged in the previous resolutions adopted
by the General Assembly and the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, and in the International Development Strategy for the Fourth
United Nations Development Decade 2/ and the Declaration on International
Economic Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth
and Development of the Developing Countries, adopted at the eighteenth
special session of the General Assembly and contained in the annex to its
resolution S-18/3 of 1 May 1990, as well as the relevant provisions of the
Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s; 4/

"5. Invites the land-locked developing countries and their transit
neighbours to intensify further their cooperative arrangements for the
development of the transit infrastructures, institutions and services to
facilitate the faster movement of goods in transit, with financial and
technical assistance from donors and financial agencies;

"6. Emphasizes that assistance for the improvement of transport
transit facilities and services should be integrated into the overall
economic development strategies of the land-locked and transit developing
countries and that donor assistance should consequently take into account
the requirements for the long-term restructuring of the economies of the
land-locked developing countries;

"7. Calls upon donor countries and multilateral financial and
development institutions to provide land-locked and transit developing
countries with appropriate financial and technical assistance in the form
of grants or concessional loans for the construction, maintenance and
improvement of their transport, storage and other transit-related
facilities, including alternative routes and improved communications;

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 12

"8. Invites the United Nations Development Programme further to
promote, as appropriate, subregional, regional and interregional projects
and programmes and to expand its support in the transport and
communications sectors to the land-locked and transit developing countries
and its technical cooperation for development geared towards promoting
national and collective self-reliance among them;

"9. Takes note of the report of the Second Meeting of Governmental
Experts from Land-locked and Transit Developing Countries and
Representatives of Donor Countries and Financial and Development
Institutions held in New York from 19 to 22 June 1995, 18/ and endorses
the Global Framework for Transit Transport Cooperation between Land-locked
and Transit Developing Countries and the Donor Community contained therein;

"10. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development, in collaboration with the donor countries and
institutions, in particular, the United Nations Development Programme, the
regional commissions and relevant subregional institutions, to organize
specific consultative groups, when requested by the land-locked and transit
developing countries concerned, to identify priority areas for action at
the national and subregional level and draw up action programmes with a
time-frame for the period 1996-1997;

"11. Requests the Secretary-General to convene in 1997, within the
overall level of resources for the biennium 1996-1997, another meeting of
governmental experts from land-locked and transit developing countries,
representatives of donor countries and financial and development
institutions, including relevant regional and subregional economic
organizations and commissions, to review progress in the development of
transit systems in the land-locked and transit developing countries, taking
into account, inter alia, the results of the consultative group meetings
referred to in paragraph 10 above, and to recommend further appropriate
action, including elaboration of programmes, as well as overall assessment
of financial resources for further improvement of transit transport
systems, and study the implications of globalization and liberalization of
the world economy, in particular the results of the Uruguay Round of
multilateral trade negotiations, for the development prospects of land-
locked developing countries;

"12. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development to seek voluntary contributions to ensure
participation of representatives from land-locked and transit developing
countries in the consultative group meetings referred to in paragraph 10
above;

"13. Notes with appreciation the contribution of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development in formulating international measures
to deal with the special problems of the land-locked developing countries,
and urges the Conference, inter alia, to keep under constant review the

18/ TD/B/42(1)-TD/B/LDC/AC.1/7.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 13

evolution of transit-transport infrastructure facilities, institutions and
services, monitor the implementation of agreed measures, collaborate in all
relevant initiatives, including those of the private sector and
non-governmental organizations, and serve as a focal point on cross-
regional issues of interest to land-locked developing countries;

"14. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in
consultation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, to take appropriate measures to enhance the capacity
of the Conference, within existing resources for the biennium 1996-1997, in
the area dealing with land-locked developing countries so as to ensure the
effective implementation of the activities called for in the present
resolution and of existing measures in support of land-locked developing
countries;

"15. Welcomes the note by the Secretary-General and the progress
report of the secretariat of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development on specific actions related to the particular needs and
problems of land-locked developing countries, 19/ and requests the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, together with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to
prepare a report on the implementation of the provisions of the present
resolution and submit it to the Trade and Development Board and to the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session."

11. At the 42nd meeting, on 8 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Conor Murphy (Ireland), introduced a draft resolution entitled "Specific
actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing
countries" (A/C.2/50/L.59), which he submitted on the basis of informal
consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.19.

12. At the same meeting, a statement of the conference-servicing implications
of draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.59 was read out by the Secretary of the Committee
(see A/C.2/50/SR.42).

13. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/50/L.59 without a vote (see para. 21, draft resolution III).

14. In view of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.59, draft resolution
A/C.2/50/L.19 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

D. Draft resolutions A/C.2/50/L.20 and L.50

15. At the 36th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of the Philippines,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77 and China, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Ninth session of
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development" (A/C.2/50/L.20), which
read:

19/ A/50/341.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 14

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964, as amended,
on the establishment of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development as an organ of the General Assembly,

"Reaffirming the important role of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development as a principal organ of the General Assembly in the
field of trade and development and as the most appropriate focal point
within the United Nations proper for the integrated treatment of
development and interrelated issues in key areas, including trade,
commodities, finance, investment, services and technology, in the interests
of all countries, in particular developing ones,

"Recalling the far-reaching institutional reform measures adopted by
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its eighth
session regarding the functions, intergovernmental machinery, methods of
work and substantive orientations of the Conference,

"Expressing its satisfaction with the early and unanimous agreement
reached by the Trade and Development Board, at the second part of its
forty-first session, on the development-oriented provisional agenda for the
ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
encompassing major issues of current concern at both macro- and
microeconomic levels under the unifying theme of "Promoting growth and
sustainable development in a globalizing and liberalizing world
economy", 14/

"Considering that the ninth session of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development is the major intergovernmental economic and
development event of 1996 within the United Nations that can deepen further
the consensus reached on "A New Partnership for Development: the Cartagena
Commitment" 5/ and complement the continuum of major United Nations
thematic conferences that have taken place recently,

"Taking note of the recommendation of the Trade and Development Board
that the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development should take place in Midrand, Gauteng Province, South Africa,
from 27 April to 11 May 1996, to be preceded by a one-day meeting of senior
officials on 26 April 1996,

"1. Welcomes with appreciation the generous offer made by the
Government of South Africa to host the ninth session of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development;

"2. Decides to convene the ninth session of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development in Midrand, Gauteng Province, South
Africa, from 27 April to 11 May 1996, to be preceded by a one-day meeting
of senior officials in the same place on 26 April 1996;

"3. Stresses the crucial importance of the ninth session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in advancing the

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 15

dialogue on international economic cooperation for trade and development
and affirms the need to achieve through the session a constructive and
action-oriented outcome;

"4. Calls upon all Member States to ensure their full participation,
at the highest political level, at the ninth session of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development;

"5. Urges all Member States to take appropriate steps in order to
ensure adequate preparations at the national, regional and interregional
levels and within the framework of the permanent machinery of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development for the purpose of facilitating
a positive and action-oriented outcome."

16. At the same meeting, the representative of South Africa made a statement
(see A/C.2/50/SR.36).

17. At the 41st meeting, on 5 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Conor Murphy (Ireland), introduced a draft resolution entitled "Ninth
session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development"
(A/C.2/50/L.50), which he submitted on the basis of informal consultations held
on draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.20, and orally revised operative paragraph 4 by
inserting the word "possible" after the word "highest".

18. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.50,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 21, draft resolution IV).

19. In view of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.50, draft resolution
A/C.2/50/L.20 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

E. Draft decision

20. At the 43rd meeting, on 12 December, the Committee decided to take note of
the note by the Secretary-General on negotiations on an international code of
conduct on the transfer of technology (see para. 22).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

21. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

International trade and development

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in
particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 16

Developing Countries, 20/ the International Development Strategy for the
Fourth United Nations Development Decade, 21/ the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, 22/ the Programme of Action for
the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, 23/ the Cartagena
Commitment, 24/ Agenda 21, 25/ and the various agreements and conferences
that provide an overall policy framework for sustained economic growth and
sustainable development to address the challenges of the 1990s,

Recalling its resolutions 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964, as
amended, 26/ on the establishment of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development as an organ of the General Assembly, 47/183 of 22 December 1992
on the eighth session of the Conference, and 48/55 of 10 December 1993 and 49/99
of 19 December 1994 on international trade and development,

Welcoming the appointment of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development,

Noting the progress made by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development in the implementation of the outcome of its eighth session, in
particular its contribution, within its mandate, to trade and development,

Emphasizing the importance of an open, rule-based, equitable, secure,
non-discriminatory, transparent and predictable multilateral trading system,

Emphasizing also that a favourable and conducive international economic and
financial environment and a positive investment climate are necessary for the
economic growth of the world economy, including the creation of employment, in
particular for the sustained economic growth and sustainable development of the
developing countries, and emphasizing further that each country is responsible
for its own economic policies for development,

20/ Resolution S-18/3, annex.

21/ Resolution 45/199, annex.

22/ Resolution 46/151, annex, sect. II.

23/ Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least Developed
Countries, Paris, 3-14 September 1990 (A/CONF.147/18), part one.

24/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, Eighth Session, Report and Annexes (United Nations publication,
Sales No. E.93.II.D.5), part one, sect. A.

25/ Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the
Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum),
resolution 1, annex II.

26/ See resolutions 2904 A (XXVII), 31/2 A and B and 34/3.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 17

Welcoming the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade negotiations at the Ministerial Meeting of the Trade Negotiations
Committee, held at Marrakesh, Morocco, from 12 to 15 April 1994, and noting that
the Uruguay Round agreements 27/ represent a historic achievement, which is
expected to contribute to strengthening the world economy and to lead to more
trade, investment, employment and income growth throughout the world and in
particular to the promotion of sustained economic growth and sustainable
development, especially in the developing countries,

Emphasizing the importance of strengthening and attaining a greater
universality of the international trading system and welcoming the process
directed towards the accession to the World Trade Organization of economies in
transition and developing countries that are not members of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, thereby contributing to their rapid and full
integration into the multilateral trading system,

Noting the assessment and recommendations adopted at the Mid-term Global
Review of the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries for the 1990s, held in New York from 25 September to 6 October 1995,

Noting also that the Uruguay Round agreements should lead, inter alia, to a
substantial liberalization of international trade, the strengthening of
multilateral rules and disciplines to ensure more stability and predictability
in trade relations, and the establishing of rules and disciplines in new areas,
and noting further the founding of a new institutional framework in the form of
the World Trade Organization, with an integrated dispute settlement mechanism
which should prevent the application of unilateral actions against international
trade rules,

Recognizing that the developing countries have made a major contribution to
the success of the Uruguay Round, in particular by accepting the challenges of
trade liberalization reforms and measures, and stressing that there is a need
for positive efforts designed to ensure that developing countries, especially
the least developed among them, secure a share in the growth in international
trade commensurate with their economic development needs,

Recognizing also that the subregional and regional economic integration
processes, including those among developing countries, which have intensified in
recent years, impart substantial dynamism to global trade and enhance trade and
development possibilities for all countries, and stressing that, in order to
maintain the positive aspects of such integration arrangements and to assure the
prevalence of their dynamic growth effects, Member States and groupings should
be outward oriented and supportive of the multilateral trading system,

Expressing concern about possible adverse effects for the least developed
countries, particularly those in Africa and net food importing developing
countries, arising from the implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements, as

27/ Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of
Multilateral Trade Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT
secretariat publication, Sales No. GATT/1994-7).

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 18

agreed in the Final Act Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of
Multilateral Trade Negotiations, 28/ signed at Marrakesh, and recognizing the
need to assist those disadvantaged developing countries so that they benefit
fully from the implementation of the Uruguay Round,

Welcoming the generous offer of the Government of South Africa to act as
host for the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development,

Recognizing the role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development in identifying and analysing new and emerging issues in the
international trade agenda in accordance with agreed conclusions 410 (XL) of
29 April 1994 of the Trade and Development Board on the Uruguay Round, 29/
agreed conclusions 419 (XLI) of 30 September 1994 of the Board on the Uruguay
Round, 30/ and decision 426 (XLII) of 4 May 1995 of the Board, 31/ and
with the provisional agenda for the ninth session of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development, 32/

Noting the importance of the inaugural Ministerial Conference of the World
Trade Organization, to be held in Singapore in December 1996,

Stressing the need to promote, facilitate and finance, as appropriate,
access to and the transfer of environmentally sound technologies and the
corresponding know-how in particular to the developing countries, on favourable
terms, including concessional and preferential terms, as mutually agreed, taking
into account the need to protect intellectual property rights, as well as the
special needs of the developing countries in the implementation of Agenda 21,

Taking note with satisfaction of the recommendation on trade, environment
and sustainable development made by the Commission on Sustainable Development at
its third session, 33/ and recognizing, in the spirit of a new global
partnership for sustainable development, the need for a balanced and integrated
approach to environment, trade and development issues,

28/ Ibid., vol. 1.

29/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 15 (A/49/15), vol. I, part one, chap. II, sect. A.

30/ Ibid., vol. II, chap. II, sect. A.

31/ See A/50/15 (vol. II).

32/ See A/50/15 (vol. I), chap. I, sect. A.

33/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 12 (E/1995/32), chap. I, paras. 47-72.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 19

1. Takes note of the reports of the Trade and Development Board on the
second part of its forty-first session 34/ and the first part of its forty-
second session, 35/ and calls upon all States to take appropriate action to
implement the outcome of those sessions;

2. Also takes note of the Trade and Development Report, 1995, 36/ and
recognizes the contribution such reports have made to the international trade
and development dialogue;

3. Emphasizes the importance of follow-up and monitoring of the
implementation of the policies and measures contained in the Cartagena
Commitment, 24/ adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development at its eighth session, held at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, from 8
to 25 February 1992;

4. Stresses the urgent need to continue trade liberalization, including
liberalization through a substantial reduction of tariff and other barriers to
trade, in particular non-tariff barriers, and the elimination of discriminatory
and protectionist practices in international trade relations, and to improve
access to the markets of all countries, in particular those of the developed
countries, so as to generate sustained economic growth and sustainable
development;

5. Also stresses the need for the full integration of the economies in
transition, as well as other countries, into the world economy, in particular
through improved market access for their exports and elimination of
discriminatory tariff and non-tariff measures and further liberalization of
their trade regimes, including vis-à-vis developing countries, and recognizes in
this respect the importance of open regional economic integration of interested
economies in transition among themselves as well as with developed and/or
developing countries in creating new possibilities for expanding trade and
investment;

6. Further stresses the importance of the timely and full implementation
of the agreements contained in the Final Act Embodying the Results of the
Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations and the significance of the
entering into force on 1 January 1995 of the Agreement Establishing the World
Trade Organization; 37/

7. Emphasizes the importance of the full and continuing implementation of
the provisions contained in the Final Act that confer special and differential

34/ A/50/15 (vol. I).

35/ A/50/15 (vol. II).

36/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.II.D.16.

37/ See Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of
Multilateral Trade Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT
secretariat publication, Sales No. GATT/1994-7), vols. 1 and 27-31.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 20

treatment for developing countries, including decisions giving special attention
to the situation of the least developed countries and the net food importing
developing countries;

8. Notes the work that has been undertaken jointly and separately by the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the World Trade
Organization on the impact of the Uruguay Round on developing countries, and
looks forward to the integration of this analysis into discussions, including
those at ministerial conferences;

9. Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its
ninth session to transmit its assessment of challenges and opportunities arising
from the Uruguay Round agreements from a development perspective to the
Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization;

10. Emphasizes the need for continued review and evaluation of the
implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements to ensure that the benefits of
the evolving multilateral trade system promote sustained economic growth and
sustainable development;

11. Also emphasizes the significance of the Ministerial Conference of the
World Trade Organization, to be held in Singapore in December 1996, in helping
to set the future direction of a rule-based multilateral trading system;

12. Deplores any attempt to bypass or undermine multilaterally agreed
measures of trade liberalization, through resort to unilateral actions over and
above those agreed to in the Uruguay Round, and reaffirms that environmental and
social concerns should not be used for protectionist purposes;

13. Notes the work of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development on trade and environment, in particular the outcome of its Ad Hoc
Working Group on Trade, Environment and Development, and also notes the work of
the Committee on Trade and Environment of the World Trade Organization;

14. Also notes the progress achieved by the joint United Nations
Environment Programme/United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
programme in the consideration of trade and environment issues, and invites the
two organizations to continue their work in accordance with paragraph 59 of
chapter I of the report of the Commission on Sustainable Development on its
third session; 38/

15. Reaffirms the need as a matter of priority to implement the Programme
of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, taking into account
the assessment and recommendations adopted at the Mid-term Global Review of the
Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for
the 1990s, held in New York from 25 September to 6 October 1995;

38/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 12 (E/1995/32).

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 21

16. Emphasizes the urgent need for assistance to African countries, inter
alia, for evaluation of the impact of the Final Act Embodying the Results of the
Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations and to enable them to identify
and implement adaptive measures to enhance their competitiveness;

17. Requests preference-giving countries to improve their preferential
schemes, and invites the 1996 policy review of the generalized system of
preferences to examine possible adaptations to the system, taking into account
paragraphs 134 to 140 of the Cartagena Commitment, 24/ as well as the results of
the Uruguay Round;

18. Reaffirms the role that the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development has been playing as the focal point within the United Nations for
the integrated treatment of development and interrelated issues in the areas of
trade, finance, technology, investment, services and sustainable development
and, within this context, stresses that there should be constructive and
effective cooperation between the Conference and the World Trade Organization,
based on the complementarity of their functions;

19. Decides to enable the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to discharge its mandate, thereby making it a more effective and
efficient instrument for promoting development;

20. Recognizes that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
at its ninth session will, inter alia, consider the future role of the
Conference, including its relationship with other international institutions, to
generate synergies among them and, on the basis of the mandate of the Conference
and with a view to strengthening the United Nations system, the Conference
should enable the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to become a
more effective instrument for promoting development;

21. Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to
consider, in close cooperation with other competent organizations, new and
emerging issues in the international trade agenda, taking into account the new
multilateral trade framework, with a view to fostering international consensus-
building among Member States in such areas as trade and environment and
competition policy, and, in this regard, recognizes the role of the Conference
in preparing the background work and consensus-building on such issues in
accordance with agreed conclusions 410 (XL) and 419 (XLI) and decision
426 (XLII) of the Trade and Development Board;

22. Also invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
in close cooperation with other competent organizations, to follow developments
in the international trading system, in particular their implications for
developing countries, and identify new trading opportunities arising from the
implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements so as to provide information and
technical support with a view to facilitating the integration of those countries
into the system and to assist them in taking full advantage of new trading
opportunities, in accordance with agreed conclusions 410 (XL) of the Trade and
Development Board;

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 22

23. Requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to
monitor, analyse and review the development of trade between economies in
transition and developing countries and to recommend appropriate measures for
its revival, thus contributing to the strengthening of the multilateral trading
system;

24. Welcomes the measures taken by the secretariats of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development and the World Trade Organization and invites
them to continue to develop their working relationship, mutual cooperation and
complementarity;

25. Emphasizes the importance to the international trading system of the
inclusion in multilateral trade agreements of all countries that are not members
of the World Trade Organization, and urges the international community to assist
appropriately and adequately those countries that are not members of the World
Trade Organization in the steps towards acceding to that Organization;

26. Requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and
invites the World Trade Organization, in accordance with their respective
mandates and competence and in close cooperation with other competent United
Nations bodies and the regional commissions, to address trade and environment
matters comprehensively and to report, through the Commission on Sustainable
Development, to the Economic and Social Council and to the General Assembly at
its special session in 1997 on the concrete progress achieved on the issue of
trade and environment;

27. Also requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
to continue its special role in the field of trade and environment, including
analytical and empirical work, conceptual and empirical studies, policy
analysis, and consensus-building, with a view to ensuring transparency and
coherence in making environmental and trade policies mutually supportive, taking
into account the need for continuing close cooperation and complementarity in
the work of the Conference, the United Nations Environment Programme and the
World Trade Organization;

28. Further requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to focus and intensify, where necessary, its technical assistance in
the light of the Uruguay Round agreements, in cooperation with relevant
international organizations, in particular the International Trade Centre and
the World Trade Organization, with the aim of increasing the capacities of
developing countries, especially the least developed countries, African
countries, and small island developing States, so that they may participate
effectively in the international trading system;

29. Requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to
continue to provide technical assistance to economies in transition, bearing in
mind the needs of developing countries, in particular with regard to their full
integration into the multilateral trading system, so as to contribute to the
expansion of their external trade, inter alia, with developing countries.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 23

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Economic measures as a means of political and economic
coercion against developing countries

The General Assembly,

Recalling the relevant principles set forth in the Charter of the United
Nations,

Reaffirming that no State may use or encourage the use of economic,
political or any other type of measures to coerce another State in order to
obtain from it the subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights,

Bearing in mind the general principles governing the international trading
system and trade policies for development contained in relevant resolutions,
rules and provisions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the World Trade Organization,

Reaffirming its resolutions 44/215 of 22 December 1989, 46/210 of
20 December 1991 and 48/168 of 21 December 1993,

Gravely concerned that the use of coercive economic measures adversely
affects the economy and development efforts of developing countries and has a
general negative impact on international economic cooperation and on worldwide
efforts to move towards a non-discriminatory and open trading system,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General, 39/ which
contains a summary of the deliberations of the group of experts on coercive
economic measures;

2. Urges the international community to adopt urgent and effective
measures to eliminate the use by some developed countries of unilateral coercive
economic measures against developing countries which are not authorized by
relevant organs of the United Nations or are inconsistent with the principles
contained in the Charter of the United Nations, as a means of forcibly imposing
the will of one State on another;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to assign to the Department for
Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis of the Secretariat, in
cooperation with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the
task of continuing to monitor the imposition of measures of this nature and to
prepare possible methodologies or criteria for evaluating the impact of such
measures on the affected countries, including the impact on trade and
development, for the consideration of Member States;

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present
resolution.

39/ A/50/439.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 24

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Specific actions related to the particular needs
and problems of land-locked developing countries

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of its resolutions 44/214 of 22 December 1989,
46/212 of 22 December 1991 and 48/169 of 21 December 1993,

Recognizing that the lack of territorial access to the sea, aggravated by
remoteness and isolation from world markets, and prohibitive transit costs and
risks impose serious constraints on the overall socio-economic development
efforts of the land-locked developing countries,

Recognizing also that 16 of the land-locked developing countries are also
classified by the United Nations as least developed countries and that their
geographical situation is an added constraint on their overall ability to cope
with the challenges of development,

Recognizing further that most transit countries are themselves developing
countries facing serious economic problems, including the lack of adequate
infrastructure in the transport sector,

Recalling that measures to deal with the transit problems of land-locked
developing countries require closer and even more effective cooperation and
collaboration between those countries and their transit neighbours,

Welcoming the entry into force on 16 November 1994 of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, 40/

Recognizing the important role played by bilateral cooperative arrangements
and regional and subregional cooperation and integration in alleviating the
transit problems of the land-locked developing countries and improving the
transit transport systems in land-locked and transit developing countries,

Recognizing also the importance of continuing the activities of the
regional commissions to improve the transit transport infrastructure in the
land-locked and transit developing countries,

Noting the importance of strengthening the existing international support
measures with a view to addressing further the problems of land-locked
developing countries,

40/ Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document
A/CONF.62/122.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 25

1. Reaffirms the right of access of land-locked developing countries to
and from the sea and freedom of transit through the territory of transit States
by all means of transport, in accordance with international law;

2. Also reaffirms that transit developing countries, in the exercise of
their full sovereignty over their territory, have the right to take all measures
necessary to ensure that the rights and facilities provided for land-locked
developing countries should in no way infringe upon their legitimate interests;

3. Calls upon both the land-locked developing countries and their transit
neighbours, in the spirit of South-South cooperation, including bilateral
cooperation, to implement measures to strengthen further their cooperative and
collaborative efforts in dealing with their transit problems;

4. Appeals once again to all States, international organizations and
financial institutions to implement, as a matter of urgency and priority, the
specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked
developing countries envisaged in the previous resolutions adopted by the
General Assembly and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and
in the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations
Development Decade 41/ and the Declaration on International Economic
Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development
of the Developing Countries, adopted at the eighteenth special session of the
General Assembly and contained in the annex to its resolution S-18/3 of
1 May 1990, as well as the relevant provisions of the Programme of Action for
the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s 42/ and the outcomes of recent
major United Nations conferences relevant to land-locked developing countries;

5. Invites the land-locked developing countries and their transit
neighbours to intensify further their cooperative arrangements for the
development of transit infrastructures, institutions and services to facilitate
the faster movement of goods in transit, with financial and technical assistance
from donors and financial institutions;

6. Emphasizes that assistance for the improvement of transit transport
facilities and services should be integrated into the overall economic
development strategies of the land-locked and transit developing countries and
that donor assistance should consequently take into account the requirements for
the long-term restructuring of the economies of the land-locked developing
countries;

7. Invites donor countries and multilateral financial and development
institutions to provide land-locked and transit developing countries with
appropriate financial and technical assistance in the form of grants or
concessional loans for the construction, maintenance and improvement of their

41/ Resolution 45/199, annex.

42/ Report of the Second United Nations Conference on the Least Developed
Countries, Paris, 3-14 September 1990 (A/CONF.147/18), part one.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 26

transport, storage and other transit-related facilities, including alternative
routes and improved communications;

8. Invites the United Nations Development Programme further to promote,
as appropriate, subregional, regional and interregional projects and programmes
and to expand its support in the transport and communications sectors to the
land-locked and transit developing countries and its technical cooperation for
development geared towards promoting national and collective self-reliance among
them;

9. Takes note of the report of the Second Meeting of Governmental Experts
from Land-locked and Transit Developing Countries and Representatives of Donor
Countries and Financial and Development Institutions, held in New York from 19
to 22 June 1995, 43/ and endorses the Global Framework for Transit Transport
Cooperation between Land-locked and Transit Developing Countries and the Donor
Community contained therein;

10. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, in collaboration with the donor countries and
institutions, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, the
regional commissions and relevant subregional institutions, to organize, within
existing resources, specific consultative groups, when requested by the land-
locked and transit developing countries concerned, to identify priority areas
for action at the national and subregional level and draw up action programmes
for the period 1996-1997;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to convene in 1997, within the overall
level of resources for the biennium 1996-1997, another meeting of governmental
experts from land-locked and transit developing countries and representatives of
donor countries and financial and development institutions, including relevant
regional and subregional economic organizations and commissions, to review
progress in the development of transit systems in the land-locked and transit
developing countries, taking into account, inter alia, the results of the
consultative group meetings referred to in paragraph 10 of the present
resolution, with a view to exploring the possibility of formulating specific
action-oriented measures and the ongoing study undertaken by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development on the implications of the globalization and
liberalization of the world economy for the development prospects of land-locked
developing countries;

12. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development to seek voluntary contributions to ensure participation of
representatives from land-locked and transit developing countries in the meeting
of governmental experts from land-locked and transit developing countries and
representatives of donor countries and financial and development institutions
referred to in paragraph 11 of the present resolution;

13. Notes with appreciation the contribution of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development in formulating international measures to

43/ TD/B/42(1)-TD/B/LDC/AC.1/7.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 27

deal with the special problems of the land-locked developing countries, and
urges the Conference, inter alia, to keep under constant review the evolution of
transit transport infrastructure facilities, institutions and services, monitor
the implementation of agreed measures, collaborate in all relevant initiatives,
including those of the private sector and non-governmental organizations, and
serve as a focal point on cross-regional issues of interest to land-locked
developing countries;

14. Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in consultation
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, to take appropriate measures for the effective implementation of
the activities called for in the present resolution and of existing measures in
support of land-locked developing countries, within the context of the ninth
session of the Conference;

15. Welcomes the note by the Secretary-General and the progress report of
the secretariat of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on
specific actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked
developing countries, 44/ and requests the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, together with the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, to prepare a report on the implementation of the present
resolution and submit it to the Trade and Development Board and to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Ninth session of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964, as amended, 45/
on the establishment of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
as an organ of the General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolution 47/183 of 22 December 1992 in which it, inter
alia, emphasized the importance of the Cartagena Commitment, 46/ adopted by
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its eighth session,
held at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, from 8 to 25 February 1992,

Expressing its satisfaction with the early and unanimous agreement reached
by the Trade and Development Board, at the second part of its forty-first

44/ A/50/341.

45/ See resolutions 2904 A (XXVII), 31/2 A and B and 34/3.

46/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, Eighth Session, Report and Annexes (United Nations publication,
Sales No. E.93.11.D.5), part one, sect. A.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 28

session, on the development-oriented provisional agenda for the ninth session of
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 47/ pursuant to
which, under the unifying theme "Promoting growth and sustainable development in
a globalizing and liberalizing world economy", the Conference will be addressing
the following topics:

(a) Development policies and strategies in an increasingly interdependent
world economy in the 1990s and beyond:

(i) Assessment of the development problématique within the current
context;

(ii) Policies and strategies for the future;

(b) Promoting international trade as an instrument for development in the
post-Uruguay-Round world;

(c) Promoting enterprise development and competitiveness in developing
countries and countries in transition;

(d) Future work of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
in accordance with its mandate: institutional implications,

Considering that the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development is a major intergovernmental economic and development
event of 1996 within the United Nations,

Taking note of the recommendation of the Trade and Development Board that
the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
should be held at Midrand, Gauteng Province, South Africa, from 27 April to
11 May 1996, preceded by a one-day meeting of senior officials on 26 April 1996,

1. Welcomes with appreciation the generous offer made by the Government
of South Africa to host the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development;

2. Decides to convene the ninth session of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development at Midrand, Gauteng Province, South Africa, from
27 April to 11 May 1996, to be preceded by a one-day meeting of senior officials
at the same place on 26 April 1996;

3. Stresses the crucial importance of the ninth session of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development in considering the topics of its
provisional agenda, 47/ and affirms the need to achieve through the session a
constructive and action-oriented outcome;

4. Calls upon all Governments to ensure their full participation, at the
highest possible political level, in the ninth session of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development;

47/ See A/50/15 (vol. I), chap. I, sect. A.

/...



A/50/617/Add.1
English
Page 29

5. Invites the Secretary-General to establish a fund to which voluntary
contributions can be made with a view to contributing to the participation of
representatives of the least developed countries in the ninth session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development;

6. Urges all Governments to take appropriate steps to ensure adequate
preparations at the national, regional and interregional levels and within the
framework of the permanent machinery of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development for the purpose of facilitating a positive and action-oriented
outcome.

* * *

22. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

Note by the Secretary-General on negotiations on an international
code of conduct on transfer of technology

The General Assembly decides to take note of the note by the Secretary-
General on negotiations on an international code of conduct on transfer of
technology. 48/

-----

48/ A/50/486.


