





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/635/Add.2
18 December 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 112 (b)

HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS: HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS, INCLUDING
ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES FOR IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVE

ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS

Report of the Third Committee (Part III)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Ahmed Yousif MOHAMED (Sudan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fiftieth session the item entitled: "Human rights questions: human rights
questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms" and to allocate it to the
Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item jointly with items 112 (a), (c), (d)
and (e) at its 35th and 38th to 51st meetings, on 21, 24 and 27 to 30 November
and on 4 to 6 December 1995. An account of the Committee’s discussion is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/50/SR.35 and 38-51). Action on
sub-item (e) was taken at the 51st to 56th and 58th meetings, on 6, 8, 11, 13
and 14 December (see A/C.3/50/SR.51-56 and 58).

3. For the documents before the Committee under item 112 (b), see document
A/50/635.

4. At the 38th meeting, on 24 November, the Assistant Secretary-General for
Human Rights made an introductory statement (see A/C.3/50/SR.38).

________________________

* The report of the Committee on agenda item 112 will be issued in six
parts under the symbol A/50/635 and Add.1-5.

95-40840 (E) 211295 211295 /...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.32

5. At the 51st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of China, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Gambia, Iraq, the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Myanmar, Namibia,
the Sudan, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam and Zimbabwe,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Respect for the principles of national
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of States in their
electoral processes" (A/C.3/50/L.32). Subsequently, Afghanistan joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

6. At its 55th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.32, by a recorded vote of 78 to 56, with 19 abstentions (see
para. 57, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, China,
Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic
of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Abstaining: Bolivia, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Guatemala, Lesotho, Paraguay, Philippines, The former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Zambia.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 3

7. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of the
United States of America, Spain, on behalf of the States members of the European
Union, and Chile made statements; after the adoption of the draft resolution
statements were made by the representatives of Costa Rica and Rwanda.

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.33

8. At the 51st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Peru, on behalf
of Argentina, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Burundi, Chile, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Germany, Guyana, Honduras,
Israel, Gabon, Georgia, Guinea, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Malta, Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Namibia, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Uruguay and Venezuela, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education:
culture of peace" (A/C.3/50/L.33). Subsequently, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Cameroon, the Congo, Croatia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic,
Ethiopia, the Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Jordan, Mali, the Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, the Niger, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of
Korea, Samoa, Sierra Leone, the Sudan, Suriname, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey and Yemen joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

9. At its 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.33, without a vote (see para. 57, draft resolution II).

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.34

10. At the 51st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Angola, Bangladesh, China, Colombia, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea, Egypt, the Gambia, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Kenya, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Mozambique, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, the Sudan,
Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Strengthening of United Nations action
in the human rights field through the promotion of international cooperation and
the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity"
(A/C.3/50/L.34). Subsequently, Afghanistan, Cameroon and Yemen joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

11. At the 55th meeting, on 13 December, the representative of Cuba orally
revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In the thirteenth preambular paragraph, the words "in order to avoid"
were replaced by the words "taking into account the need to avoid";

(b) Operative paragraph 10, which had read:

"Requests the Commission on Human Rights, within the framework of the
review of its working methods and agenda, to give due consideration to the
present resolution and to formulate concrete proposals for its
implementation",

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 4

was replaced by the following:

"10. Requests the Commission on Human Rights of the Secretariat to
take duly into account the present resolution and to consider further
proposals for the strengthening of United Nations action in the human
rights field through the promotion of international cooperation and the
importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity".

12. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.34,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft resolution III).

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.36

13. At the 51st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Cuba introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Respect for the right to universal freedom of travel
and the vital importance of family reunification" (A/C.3/50/L.36) and orally
revised it by deleting the words "against another State" after the words "as a
coercive measure" in operative paragraph 4.

14. At its 55th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.36, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 75 to 4, with
74 abstentions (see para. 57, draft resolution IV). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia.

Against: Canada, Israel, Japan, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Kazakstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 5

Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uzbekistan, Zimbabwe.

15. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements were made by
the representatives of Chile, Venezuela, Mexico and South Africa.

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.37

16. At the 52nd meeting, on 8 December, the representative of India, on behalf
of Austria, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, France, India, Latvia,
Mongolia, Morocco, New Zealand, Portugal, Tunisia and Venezuela, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "National institutions for the promotion and
protection of human rights" (A/C.3/50/L.37). Subsequently, Benin, Cameroon,
Canada, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius, Monaco, Nepal,
Nigeria, the Philippines, South Africa and the United States of America joined
in sponsoring the draft resolution.

17. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of India revised it
as follows:

(a) In the seventh preambular paragraph, the words "that these could be
developed further" were replaced by the words "the need for their continued
dissemination";

(b) At the end of operative paragraph 2, the words "and recognizes that it
is the right of each State to choose the framework that is best suited to its
particular needs at the national level" were added;

(c) Operative paragraph 4 was deleted and the subsequent paragraphs were
renumbered accordingly;

(d) At the end of operative paragraph 6 (formerly paragraph 7), the words
"and invites Governments to contribute to the Voluntary Fund for Advisory
Services and Technical Assistance in the field of human rights for these
purposes" were added;

(e) A new operative paragraph was inserted between operative paragraphs 8
and 9 (formerly paragraphs 9 and 10), as follows:

"9. Recognizes the important and constructive role that
non-governmental organizations may play, in cooperation with national
institutions, for the better promotion and protection of human rights".

18. At the 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the representative of India further
orally revised the draft resolution as follows: operative paragraph 5 (formerly
paragraph 6), which had read:

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 6

"5. Affirms the role of national institutions, where they exist, and
appropriate agencies for the dissemination of human rights materials and
the public information activities",

was changed to read:

"5. Affirms the role of national institutions, where they exist, as
appropriate agencies for the dissemination of human rights materials and
public information activities, including those of the United Nations".

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.37,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft resolution V).

20. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Germany
made a statement; after the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative
of Japan made a statement.

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.38

21. At the 51st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Namibia, on
behalf of Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Benin,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Gabon, the
Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India,
Israel, Italy, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Malaysia, the Marshall Islands, Malta,
Mauritania, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, Senegal, Slovenia, Suriname, Uganda,
the United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education"
(A/C.3/50/L.38). Subsequently, Bangladesh, Barbados, Canada, Colombia, the
Congo, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Mali, Mauritius,
the Niger, Nigeria, the Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Samoa, Sierra Leone, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka and Tunisia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

22. At its 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.38, without a vote (see para. 57, draft resolution VI).

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.40

23. At the 51st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Cambodia" (A/C.3/50/L.40).
Subsequently, Ireland, Monaco and New Zealand joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

24. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Australia
revised it as follows:

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 7

(a) In operative paragraph 6, the words "paragraph 4" were replaced by the
words "paragraphs 2 and 4";

(b) In operative paragraph 20, the words "activities for the office in
Cambodia" were replaced by the words "activities of the office in Cambodia".

25. At its 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.40, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft
resolution VII).

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.42

26. At the 51st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Brazil, on behalf
of Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Gabon, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Israel, Italy, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Uruguay
and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Strengthening of the rule
of law" (A/C.3/50/L.42). Subsequently, Cameroon, Lesotho, Mali, Mauritius,
Monaco, Norway, the Republic of Korea, South Africa and the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

27. At the 53rd meeting, on 11 December, before the adoption of the draft
resolution, the representative of Côte d’Ivoire made a statement (see
A/C.3/50/SR.53).

28. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.42
without a vote (see para. 57, draft resolution VIII).

H. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.48

29. At the 52nd meeting, on 8 December, the representative of Austria, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia,
Canada, Costa Rica, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Georgia, Greece, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Israel, Italy, Kazakstan, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Norway, Panama, Poland,
Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine and the United States of America, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Effective promotion of the Declaration on the Rights
of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities"
(A/C.3/50/L.48). Subsequently, Bangladesh, the Congo, Croatia, India, Romania,
San Marino and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined in sponsoring
the draft resolution.

30. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Austria orally
revised it as follows:

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 8

(a) Operative paragraph 4, which had read:

"4. Appeals to States that so wish to consider making bilateral and
multilateral arrangements or agreements in order to protect the rights of
persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities in their countries, in accordance with the Declaration",

was replaced by the following:

"4. Appeals to States to make bilateral and multilateral efforts, as
appropriate, in order to protect the rights of persons belonging to
national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities in their countries,
in accordance with the Declaration";

(b) Operative paragraph 13 was deleted and the subsequent paragraphs were
renumbered accordingly.

31. At the 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.48, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft
resolution IX).

32. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Turkey
made a statement (see A/C.3/50/SR.53).

I. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.49

33. At the 52nd meeting, on 8 December, the representative of Austria, on
behalf of Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burundi, Canada, Cape Verde, Costa Rica, the
Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Finland, France, Georgia, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Monaco, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Panama, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of
Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa,
Spain, Sweden and Ukraine, introduced a draft resolution, entitled "Human rights
in the administration of justice" (A/C.3/50/L.49) and orally revised it by
deleting operative paragraph 12 and renumbering the subsequent paragraph
accordingly. Subsequently, Côte d’Ivoire, Germany, Greece, Kenya, Luxembourg,
Malta, Mauritius, Rwanda, San Marino and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland joined in sponsoring the revised draft resolution.

34. At its 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.49, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft
resolution X).

J. Draft resolutions A/C.3/50/L.51 and Rev.1

35. At the 54th meeting, on 11 December, the representative of Canada, on
behalf of Argentina, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, Finland, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein,
Monaco, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 9

Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, introduced
a draft resolution entitled "Importance of human rights in the early warning and
prevention of mass exoduses and in the emergency operations of the United
Nations" (A/C.3/50/L.51), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Deeply disturbed by the escalating scale and magnitude of exoduses of
refugees and displacements of population in many regions of the world and
by the human suffering of millions of refugees and displaced persons,

"Recalling its previous relevant resolutions, as well as those of the
Commission on Human Rights, particularly resolution 1995/88, and the
conclusions of the World Conference on Human Rights, which recognized that
gross violations of human rights, including in armed conflicts, are among
the multiple and complex factors leading to displacement of people, and the
need for a comprehensive approach by the international community to address
root causes and effects of movements of refugees and other displaced
persons and the strengthening of emergency preparedness and response
mechanisms,

"Noting that the Secretary-General, in his report entitled "An Agenda
for Peace", 1/ identifies the protection of human rights as an important
element of peace, security and economic well-being and highlights the
importance of preventive diplomacy, identifies the linkage between
preventive diplomacy and humanitarian assistance and recognizes that
preventive diplomacy requires an early warning capacity, and noting also
that the Security Council in the statement by its President on the
Supplement to the Agenda for Peace 2/ on 22 February 1995, 3/ endorsed
the view expressed by the Secretary-General concerning the crucial
importance of economic and social development as a secure basis for peace
and in preventing conflicts, as in healing the wounds after conflicts have
occurred,

"Welcoming the decision by the Administrative Committee on
Coordination that the inter-agency consultations on early warning regarding
new flows of refugees and displaced persons chaired by the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs be continued, with the purpose of serving both
prevention of, and preparedness for, emergencies,

"Welcoming also the initiative by the Department of Humanitarian
Affairs of establishing a pilot project of the Humanitarian Early Warning
System, with the purpose of identifying potential crises with humanitarian
implications through the analysis of its database, and welcoming further
the establishment by the Department of Political Affairs, the Department of

1/ A/47/277-S/24111.

2/ A/50/60-S/1995/1.

3/ S/PRST/1995/9.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 10

Peace-keeping Operations and the Department of Humanitarian Affairs of
interdepartmental consultations for the joint analysis of early warning of
looming crises, within a broader framework for the coordination of
operational planning and implementation among the three departments,

"Recognizing the important aspects of complementarity between the
system for the protection of human rights and humanitarian action, and that
humanitarian agencies make an important contribution to the realization of
human rights,

"Recognizing also that the human rights machinery of the United
Nations, including the mechanisms of the Commission on Human Rights and the
human rights treaty bodies has important capabilities to address human
rights violations that cause movements of refugees and displaced persons or
prevent durable solutions to their plight,

"Convinced that the activities of these mechanisms, with a view,
inter alia, to preventing mass exoduses and the strengthening of emergency
preparedness and response mechanisms should be encouraged and further
developed and coordinated, with priority given to the systematization of
early warning information collection,

"Recognizing that women and children constitute approximately
80 per cent of most refugee populations and that, in addition to the
problems and needs they share with all refugees, women and girls in such
circumstances are vulnerable to gender-based discrimination and gender-
specific violence and exploitation,

"Welcoming the continuing efforts of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees to meet the protection and assistance needs of
refugees and other persons of concern to her Office world wide,

"1. Takes note with interest of the report of the Secretary-General
on human rights and mass exoduses; 4/

"2. Invites again all Governments and intergovernmental, humanitarian
and non-governmental organizations concerned to intensify their cooperation
and assistance in world-wide efforts to address the serious problems
resulting from mass exoduses of refugees and displaced persons, and the
causes of such exoduses;

"3. Encourages States that have not already done so to consider
acceding to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its
Protocol of 1967, and other relevant regional refugee instruments and
relevant international human rights instruments;

"4. Welcomes the statement made by the High Commissioner for Refugees
at the fifty-first session of the Commission on Human Rights, in which she
emphasized that human rights concerns go to the essence of the cause of

4/ A/50/566.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 11

refugee movements, as well as to the precepts of refugee protection and the
solution of refugee problems;

"5. Urges all bodies involved in inter-agency consultations on early
warning to cooperate fully in and to devote the necessary resources to the
successful operation of the consultations;

"6. Welcomes the initiative by the Department of Humanitarian Affairs
to establish a pilot project of the Humanitarian Early Warning System, the
continuation of the inter-agency consultations regarding new flows of
refugees and displaced persons, as well as the establishment of
inter-departmental consultations for the joint analysis of early warning of
looming crises, within a broader framework for the coordination of
operational planning and implementation among the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs, the Department of Political Affairs and the
Department of Peace-keeping Operations;

"7. Welcomes also the contribution made by the Centre for Human
Rights of the Secretariat to the development of the Humanitarian Early
Warning System of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs;

"8. Invites the special rapporteurs, special representatives and
working groups of the Commission on Human Rights and the United Nations
human rights treaty bodies, to continue seeking information, where
appropriate, on problems resulting in mass exoduses of populations or
impeding their voluntary return home and, where appropriate, to include
such information, together with recommendations thereon, in their reports,
and to bring such information to the attention of the High Commissioner for
Human Rights;

"9. Requests all United Nations bodies, including the human rights
treaty bodies, the specialized agencies and governmental, intergovernmental
and non-governmental organizations, to cooperate fully with all mechanisms
of the Commission and, in particular, to provide them with all relevant
information in their possession on the human rights situations creating or
affecting refugees and displaced persons;

"10. Requests the High Commissioner for Human Rights to pay attention
to situations that cause or threaten to cause mass exoduses and to address
effectively such situations through emergency preparedness and response
mechanisms, including information-sharing with United Nations early warning
mechanisms, and the provision of technical advice, expertise and
cooperation;

"11. Urges the Secretary-General to attach high priority and allocate
the necessary resources to the consolidation and strengthening of all
United Nations early warning activities for the purpose of ensuring,
inter alia, that effective action is taken to identify all human rights
abuses that contribute to mass outflows of persons;

"12. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit to the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session a report containing detailed

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 12

information on early warning activities in the United Nations, including
detailed information on the programmatic, institutional, administrative,
financial and managerial efforts undertaken to enhance the capacity of the
United Nations to undertake such activities;

"13. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
fifty-second session."

36. At its 56th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/50/L.51/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.3/50/L.51 and Côte d’Ivoire, New Zealand, Norway, the
Philippines, the Russian Federation and South Africa.

37. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada orally revised the
revised draft resolution as follows:

(a) The title was changed to read "Human rights and mass exoduses";

(b) At the end of the fifth preambular paragraph, the words "with the
purpose of serving both prevention of and preparedness for emergencies" were
deleted;

(c) The ninth preambular paragraph was deleted;

(d) In operative paragraph 5, the words "as applicable" were inserted
after the words "refugee instruments";

(e) In operative paragraph 6, the word "welcomes" was replaced by the
words "takes note of";

(f) In operative paragraph 10, the words "human rights abuses" were
replaced by the words "multiple and complex factors, including human rights
violations";

(g) In operative paragraph 11, the words "Also invites" were replaced by
the word "Requests".

38. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.51/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft
resolution XI).

K. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.55

39. At the 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the representative of Ireland, on
behalf of Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Finland,
France, Gabon, the Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Monaco, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland,

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 13

Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, San Marino,
Sierra Leone, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Elimination of all forms of religious intolerance"
(A/C.3/50/L.55). Subsequently, Azerbaijan, Cameroon, and the Congo joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

40. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Ireland orally
revised it as follows:

(a) A new preambular paragraph was inserted between the seventh and eighth
preambular paragraphs, which read:

"Recalling that the World Conference on Human Rights recognized that
the process of promoting and protecting human rights should be conducted in
conformity with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and international law";

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the words "to all without discrimination"
were inserted after the words "freedom of thought, conscience, religion and
belief";

(c) In operative paragraph 3, the words "physical integrity" were replaced
by the word "liberty";

(d) In operative paragraph 5, after the words "to encourage", the words
"through the educational system and by other means" were deleted;

(e) At the end of operative paragraph 20, the words "in full and on time"
were deleted.

41. At its 55th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.55, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft
resolution XII).

L. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.57

42. At the 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the representative of Colombia, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and Argentina, Australia, Armenia, Austria,
Belgium, Brazil, China, Costa Rica, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal,
Spain and Uruguay, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Right to development"
(A/C.3/50/L.57). Subsequently, Canada, El Salvador, Monaco, Paraguay and
Solomon Islands joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

43. At its 55th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.57, without a vote (see para. 57, draft resolution XIII).

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 14

M. Draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.59

44. At the 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the representative of the United
States of America, on behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, the Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Mali, the
Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Nepal,
the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Poland,
Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia,
Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Strengthening the role of the United Nations in enhancing
the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections and the
promotion of democratization" (A/C.3/50/L.59). Subsequently, the Congo, Malta,
Norway, the Russian Federation and Ukraine joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

45. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America orally revised it as follows:

(a) In operative paragraph 2, the word "approved", before the word
"guidelines", was deleted;

(b) In operative paragraph 9, the words "to strengthen its collaboration
with the Centre, including through an exchange of personnel when appropriate,
and with the department and the programme and" were inserted after the words
"Electoral Assistance Division".

46. At the 55th meeting, on 13 December, before the adoption of the draft
resolution, the representative of Cuba made a statement (see A/C.3/50/SR.55).

47. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/50/L.59,
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 143 to none, with 14 abstentions (see
para. 57, draft resolution XIV). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 15

States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Brunei Darussalam, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea, Gambia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Myanmar, Nigeria, Sudan, Uganda, United Republic
of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.

N. Draft resolutions A/C.3/50/L.61 and Rev.1

48. At the 53rd meeting, on 11 December, the representative of Turkey, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Georgia, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia,
Mauritania, Morocco, Panama, Peru, the Republic of Korea, Sierra Leone, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Turkey, Ukraine
and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights and
terrorism" (A/C.3/50/L.61), which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, 5/ the Declaration on Principles of
International Law Concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation Among
States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations 6/ and the
International Covenants on Human Rights, 7/

"Bearing in mind that acts of terrorism aimed at the destruction of
human rights, including the right to life, which is the fundamental human
right, have continued despite national and international efforts,

5/ Resolution 217 A (III).

6/ Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

7/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 16

"Bearing in mind also that terrorism creates an environment that
destroys the freedom from fear of the people,

"Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by
the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to
25 June 1993, 8/

"Recalling also its resolutions 48/122 of 20 December 1993 and 49/185
of 23 December 1994,

"Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/43 of
3 March 1995,

"Reiterating that all States have an obligation to promote and protect
human rights and fundamental freedoms, and also that every individual
should strive to secure their universal and effective recognition and
observance,

"Seriously concerned at the gross violations of human rights
perpetrated by terrorist groups,

"Profoundly deploring the increasing number of innocent persons,
including women, children and the elderly, killed, massacred and maimed by
terrorists in indiscriminate and random acts of violence and terror, which
cannot be justified under any circumstances,

"Noting with great concern the growing connection between the
terrorist groups and other criminal organizations engaged in the illegal
traffic in arms and drugs at the national and international levels, as well
as the consequent commission of serious crimes such as murder, extortion,
kidnapping, assault, taking of hostages and robbery,

"Mindful of the need to protect human rights of and guarantees for the
individual in accordance with the relevant international human rights
principles and instruments, particularly the right to life,

"1. Expresses its solidarity with the victims of terrorism;

"2. Reiterates its unequivocal condemnation of the acts, methods and
practices of terrorism as activities aimed at the destruction of human
rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy, threatening the territorial
integrity and security of States, destabilizing legitimately constituted
Governments, undermining pluralistic civil society and having adverse
consequences on the economic and social development of States;

"3. Calls upon States to take all necessary and effective measures in
accordance with international standards of human rights, to prevent, combat
and eliminate all acts of terrorism wherever and by whomever committed;

8/ A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 17

"4. Urges the international community to enhance cooperation at
regional and international levels in the fight against terrorism with the
aim of eradicating it, and to conform to all relevant regional and
international conventions and commitments on this subject;

"5. Condemns the incitement of ethnic hatred, violence and terrorism;

"6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to seek the views of
Member States on the possible establishment of a United Nations voluntary
fund for victims of terrorism, as well as ways and means to rehabilitate
the victims of terrorism and to reintegrate them into society, and to
submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, for its
consideration, a report containing comments made by Member States on the
subject;

"7. Also requests the Secretary-General to transmit the text of the
present resolution to all Member States and to competent specialized
agencies and intergovernmental organizations for their consideration;

"8. Encourages special rapporteurs, special representatives and
working groups of the Commission on Human Rights, as well as treaty bodies,
to pay appropriate attention, within their mandates, to the consequences of
the acts, methods and practices of terrorist groups;

"9. Decides to consider this question at its fifty-second session
under the item entitled ’Human rights questions’."

49. At its 56th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.3/50/L.61/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.3/50/L.61, joined by Rwanda.

50. At the same meeting, the representative of Turkey orally revised the
revised draft resolution by inserting, in operative paragraph 4, the words "in
accordance with relevant international instruments, including those relating to
human rights" after the words "fight against terrorism".

51. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.61/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft
resolution XV).

52. Before the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements were made
by the representatives of Spain, on behalf of the States members of the European
Union, and Chile; after the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements
were made by the representatives of Mexico, Pakistan, Norway and the Russian
Federation (see A/C.3/50/SR.56).

O. Draft resolutions A/C.3/50/L.62 and Rev.1

53. On 5 December, the Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled
"Strengthening of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights/Centre for Human Rights" (A/C.3/50/L.62), submitted by Albania, Antigua

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 18

and Barbuda, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile,
Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, the
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, the
Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic
of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela, which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 44/135 of 15 December 1989, 45/180 of
21 December 1990, 46/111 and 46/118 of 17 December 1991, 48/129 of
20 December 1993 and 49/195 of 23 December 1994, and bearing in mind all
relevant resolutions of the Economic and Social Council and the Commission
on Human Rights,

"Considering that the promotion of universal respect for and
observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the basic
purposes of the United Nations enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations and a priority activity of the Organization,

"Taking into account that in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action, the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to
25 June 1993, concerned by the growing disparity between the activities of
the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat and the human, financial and
other resources available to carry them out, and bearing in mind the
resources needed for other important United Nations programmes, requested
the Secretary-General and the General Assembly to take immediate steps to
increase substantially the resources for the human rights programme, 9/

"Noting that in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the
World Conference on Human Rights stressed the importance of strengthening
the Centre, 10/

"Taking into account the establishment of the post of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the mandate for the
post, including its coordinating role and its overall supervision of the
Centre, as well as the request by the General Assembly in resolution 48/141
for appropriate staff and resources to enable the High Commissioner to
fulfil his mandate, and noting with concern that the response to this
request has not been commensurate with the needs,

"Noting that the High Commissioner and the Centre are a unity whereby
the High Commissioner sets the policy directions and the priority of action
and the Centre implements those policies under the direction of the
Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights,

9/ See A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. II, para. 9.

10/ Ibid., para. 13.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 19

"Taking into account the fact that the responsibilities of the High
Commissioner include, inter alia, engaging in a dialogue with all
Governments in the implementation of his mandate with a view to the
promotion and protection of all human rights, and rationalizing, adapting,
strengthening and streamlining the United Nations machinery in the field of
human rights with a view to improving its efficiency and effectiveness,

"Noting the persistence of a serious imbalance between mandates to be
carried out under the human rights programme and resources available to
fulfil those mandates,

"Concerned at the difficult financial situation and the understaffing
of the Office of the High Commissioner and of the Centre, which creates
considerable obstacles to carrying out their mandates in full and on time,
including those pertaining to the right to development,

"Acknowledging that, while further improvement in the function and
efficiency of the Centre, together with a strong emphasis on good
management practices, is needed in order to enable the Centre to cope with
its constantly increasing workload, good management practices need to be
complemented by additional resources commensurate with additional mandates,

"Welcoming the ongoing process aimed at increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Centre as well as the steps already taken to
strengthen its administrative services,

"Recognizing that this process will contribute to the strengthening of
the functional framework for integrated and consolidated activities of the
Secretariat in the field of human rights,

"Recalling that in its report to the Special Commission of the
Economic and Social Council, 11/ the Commission on Human Rights
reaffirmed that the paramount consideration in the employment of staff at
every level was the need for the highest standards of efficiency,
competence and integrity, and that it was convinced that that was
compatible with the principle of equitable geographical distribution, and
bearing in mind Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United
Nations,

"Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the
strengthening of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat, 12/ as
well as the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights, 13/

11/ E/CN.4/1988/85 and Corr.1.

12/ A/50/678.

13/ A/50/36.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 20

"1. Supports and encourages the efforts of the Secretary-General to
enhance the role and further improve the functioning of the Centre for
Human Rights of the Secretariat, under the overall supervision of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;

"2. Stresses the need to ensure that all the necessary financial,
material and personnel resources are provided without delay to the High
Commissioner and the Centre to enable them to carry out efficiently,
effectively and expeditiously, in full and on time, the mandates assigned
to them;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to make available additional human
and financial resources to enhance the capability of the High Commissioner
and of the Centre to fulfil effectively their respective mandates and their
ability to carry out mandated operational activities and to coordinate
efficiently with other relevant parts of the United Nations system on
logistical and administrative questions, having due regard to the need to
finance and implement activities of the United Nations related to
development;

"4. Supports fully the High Commissioner in his efforts to strengthen
the human rights programme of the United Nations, inter alia, through
measures aimed at restructuring the Centre to improve its efficiency and
effectiveness;

"5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit an interim report to the
Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-second session and a final report
to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the strengthening of
the human rights programme and on the measures taken to implement the
present resolution."

54. At the 55th meeting, on 13 December, the representative of Spain, on behalf
of the same sponsors and Andorra, Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada,
Cape Verde, Colombia, the Congo, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, the Dominican
Republic, Guatemala, Malta, Mauritius, New Zealand, Panama, the Republic of
Korea, Solomon Islands, Suriname, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and
Ukraine, subsequently joined by Australia, India, Jordan, Kenya and the
Philippines, introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.3/50/L.62/Rev.1) and
orally revised it as follows:

(a) At the end of the third preambular paragraph, the phrase "and to take
urgent steps to seek increased extrabudgetary resources" was added;

(b) In the sixth preambular paragraph, the words "this request" were
replaced by the words "these requests", and the words "those mandates" were
replaced by the words "all of these mandates";

(c) In the seventh preambular paragraph, the word "Recalling" was replaced
by the words "Taking into account";

(d) In operative paragraph 3, the phrase "having due regard to the need to
finance and implement activities of the United Nations related to development"

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 21

was moved to the end of the paragraph, and the word "including" was inserted
after the words "United Nations system".

55. At its 58th meeting, on 14 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/50/L.62/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57, draft
resolution XVI).

56. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, the representative of
Cuba made a statement (see A/C.3/50/SR.58).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

57. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Respect for the principles of national sovereignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of States in

their electoral processes

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the purpose of the United Nations to develop friendly relations
among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-
determination of peoples and to take other appropriate measures to strengthen
universal peace,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalling also its resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, by which it
approved the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations,

Recalling further the principle enshrined in Article 2, paragraph 7, of the
Charter of the United Nations, which establishes that nothing contained in the
Charter shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in matters which are
essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State or shall require the
Members to submit such matters to settlement under the Charter,

Reaffirming the obligation of Member States to comply with the principles
of the Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of the United Nations
regarding the right to self-determination, by virtue of which all peoples can
freely determine, without external interference, their political status and
freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development,

Reaffirming also, in this context, the right of the Palestinian people to
self-determination,

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 22

Recognizing that the principles of national sovereignty and
non-interference in the internal affairs of any State should be respected in the
holding of elections,

Recognizing also that there is no single political system or single
universal model for electoral processes equally suited to all nations and their
peoples, and that political systems and electoral processes are subject to
historical, political, cultural and religious factors,

Convinced that the establishment of the necessary mechanisms and means to
guarantee full and effective popular participation in electoral processes
corresponds to States,

Recalling all its resolutions in this regard,

Welcoming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 14/ adopted by
the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, in
which the Conference reaffirmed that the processes of promoting and protecting
human rights should be conducted in conformity with the purposes and principles
of the Charter,

1. Reiterates that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and self-
determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, all
peoples have the right, freely and without external interference, to determine
their political status and to pursue their economic, social and cultural
development, and that every State has the duty to respect that right in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter;

2. Reaffirms that it is the concern solely of peoples to determine
methods and to establish institutions regarding the electoral process, as well
as to determine the ways for its implementation according to their constitution
and national legislation, and that, consequently, States should establish the
necessary mechanisms and means to guarantee full and effective popular
participation in those processes;

3. Reaffirms also that any activities that attempt, directly or
indirectly, to interfere in the free development of national electoral
processes, in particular in the developing countries, or that are intended to
sway the results of such processes, violate the spirit and letter of the
principles established in the Charter and in the Declaration on Principles of
International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations;

4. Reaffirms further that electoral assistance to Member States should be
provided by the United Nations only at the request and with the consent of
specific sovereign States, by virtue of resolutions adopted by the Security
Council or the General Assembly in each case, in strict conformity with the
principles of sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of

14/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 23

States, or in special circumstances such as cases of decolonization, or in the
context of regional or international peace processes;

5. Strongly appeals to all States to refrain from financing or providing,
directly or indirectly, any other form of overt or covert support for political
parties or groups and from taking actions to undermine the electoral processes
in any country;

6. Condemns any act of armed aggression or threat or use of force against
peoples, their elected Governments or their legitimate leaders;

7. Reaffirms that all countries have the obligation under the Charter of
the United Nations to respect the right of others to self-determination and to
determine freely their political status and pursue their economic, social and
cultural development;

8. Decides to consider this question at its fifty-second session under
the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education:
culture of peace

The General Assembly,

Recognizing that, in the context of respect for the permanent values on
which the United Nations system is based, the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization has, since its founding, worked to ensure
the free circulation of ideas, to bring individuals and cultures closer together
and to ensure respect for human rights, the effective exercise of democracy,
justice and freedom,

Bearing in mind its resolutions 48/126 of 20 December 1993 and 49/213 of
23 December 1994 on the proclamation of the United Nations Year for Tolerance,
and its resolution 49/184 of 23 December 1994 proclaiming the United Nations
Decade for Human Rights Education,

Welcoming with appreciation resolution 5.2 of the twenty-eighth General
Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, which invites the Director-General to implement the activities of
the transdisciplinary project entitled "Towards a culture of peace", in
particular, unit 1, entitled "Education for peace, human rights, democracy,
international understanding and tolerance",

Considering that the Plan of Action for the Decade 15/ will make a
fundamental contribution to understanding and peaceful coexistence among

15/ See A/49/261/Add.1-E/1994/110/Add.1, annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 24

individuals and nations and is consistent with the transdisciplinary project
entitled "Towards a culture of peace",

1. Expresses its satisfaction at the recent resolution adopted by the
twenty-eighth General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, which contains the transdisciplinary project entitled
"Towards a culture of peace";

2. Encourages countries, regional organizations, non-governmental
organizations and the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization to take all necessary action to ensure
education for peace, human rights, democracy, international understanding and
tolerance;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Director-
General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the progress of
educational activities in the framework of the transdisciplinary project
entitled "Towards a culture of peace".

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Strengthening of United Nations action in the human rights
field through the promotion of international cooperation
and the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and

objectivity

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth
of the human person and the equal rights of men and women and of nations large
and small, and reaffirming also its determination to promote social progress and
better standards of living in greater freedom,

Bearing in mind that among the purposes of the United Nations are those of
developing friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle
of equal rights and self-determination of peoples and taking other appropriate
measures to strengthen universal peace, as well as achieving international
cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural
or humanitarian character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex,
language or religion,

Recalling that, in accordance with Article 55 of the Charter of the United
Nations, the Organization shall promote universal respect for and observance of
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, with a view to the creation of
conditions of stability and well-being that are necessary for peaceful and
friendly relations among nations, based on respect for the principle of equal
rights and self-determination of peoples and that, in accordance with
Article 56, all Members pledge themselves to take joint and separate action in

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 25

cooperation with the Organization for the achievement of the purposes set forth
in Article 55,

Reiterating that Member States should continue to act in the human rights
field in conformity with the provisions of the Charter,

Desirous of achieving further progress in international cooperation in
promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Considering that such international cooperation should be based on the
principles embodied in international law, especially the Charter, as well as the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 16/ the International Covenants on
Human Rights 17/ and other relevant instruments,

Deeply convinced that United Nations action in this field should be based
not only on a profound understanding of the broad range of problems existing in
all societies but also on full respect for the political, economic and social
realities of each of them, in strict compliance with the purposes and principles
of the Charter and for the basic purpose of promoting and encouraging respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms through international cooperation,

Reaffirming all its resolutions in this regard,

Bearing in mind its resolutions 2131 (XX) of 21 December 1965, 2625 (XXV)
of 24 October 1970 and 36/103 of 9 December 1981,

Reaffirming the importance of ensuring the universality, objectivity and
non-selectivity of the consideration of human rights issues, as affirmed in the
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on
Human Rights on 25 June 1993, 18/

Aware of the fact that the promotion, protection and full exercise of all
human rights and fundamental freedoms as legitimate concerns of the world
community should be guided by the principles of universality, non-selectivity,
impartiality and objectivity and should not be used for political ends,

Affirming the importance of the objectivity, independence and discretion of
the special rapporteurs and representatives on thematic issues and countries, as
well as of the members of the working groups, in carrying out their mandates,

Affirming also the need to cooperate so as to strengthen, rationalize and
streamline United Nations activities on human rights, taking into account the
need to avoid unnecessary duplication,

16/ Resolution 217 A (III).

17/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

18/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 26

Underlining the obligation that Governments have to promote and protect
human rights and to carry out the responsibilities that they have undertaken
under international law, especially the Charter, as well as various
international instruments in the field of human rights,

1. Reiterates that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and self-
determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, all
peoples have the right freely to determine, without external interference, their
political status and to pursue their economic, social and cultural development,
and that every State has the duty to respect that right within the provisions of
the Charter, including respect for territorial integrity;

2. Reaffirms that it is a purpose of the United Nations and the task of
all Member States, in cooperation with the Organization, to promote and
encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and to remain
vigilant with regard to violations of human rights wherever they occur;

3. Calls upon all Member States to base their activities for the
protection and promotion of human rights, including the development of further
international cooperation in this field, on the Charter, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights, 19/ the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights, 19/ and other relevant international instruments, and to refrain from
activities that are inconsistent with that international framework;

4. Considers that international cooperation in this field should make an
effective and practical contribution to the urgent task of preventing mass and
flagrant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and to the
strengthening of international peace and security;

5. Affirms that the promotion, protection, and full realization of all
human rights and fundamental freedoms, as legitimate concerns of the world
community, should be guided by the principles of non-selectivity, impartiality
and objectivity, and should not be used for political ends;

6. Requests all human rights bodies within the United Nations system, as
well as the special rapporteurs and representatives, independent experts and
working groups, to take duly into account the contents of the present resolution
in carrying out their mandates;

7. Expresses its conviction that an unbiased and fair approach to human
rights issues contributes to the promotion of international cooperation as well
as to the effective promotion, protection and realization of human rights and
fundamental freedoms;

8. Stresses, in this context, the continuing need for impartial and
objective information on the political, economic and social situations and
events of all countries;

19/ See resolution 2200 (XXI), annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 27

9. Invites Member States to consider adopting, as appropriate, within the
framework of their respective legal systems and in accordance with their
obligations under international law, especially the Charter, and international
human rights instruments, the measures that they may deem appropriate to achieve
further progress in international cooperation in promoting and encouraging
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;

10. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to take duly into account the
present resolution and to consider further proposals for the strengthening of
United Nations action in the human rights field through the promotion of
international cooperation and the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality
and objectivity;

11. Decides to consider this matter at its fifty-first session under the
item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Respect for the right to universal freedom of travel and
the vital importance of family reunification

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal,
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated,

Recalling the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 20/

Stressing that, as stated in the Programme of Action of the International
Conference on Population and Development, 21/ held at Cairo from 5 to
13 September 1994, family reunification of documented migrants is an important
factor in international migration, and that remittances by documented migrants
to their countries of origin often constitute a very important source of foreign
exchange and are instrumental in improving the well-being of relatives left
behind,

Recalling also its resolution 49/182 of 23 December 1994,

1. Once again calls upon all States to guarantee the universally
recognized freedom of travel to all foreign nationals legally residing in their
territory;

20/ Resolution 217 A (III).

21/ Report of the International Conference on Population, Cairo,
5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.8),
chap. I, resolution 1, annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 28

2. Reaffirms that all Governments, particularly those of receiving
countries, must recognize the vital importance of family reunification and
promote its incorporation into national legislation in order to ensure
protection of the unity of families of documented migrants;

3. Calls upon all States to allow, in conformity with international
legislation, the free flow of financial remittances by foreign nationals
residing in their territory to their relatives in the country of origin;

4. Also calls upon all States to refrain from enacting, and to repeal if
it already exists, legislation intended as a coercive measure that discriminates
against individuals or groups of legal migrants by adversely affecting family
reunification and the right to send financial remittances to relatives in the
country of origin;

5. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-
first session under the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

National institutions for the promotion and protection
of human rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the
Commission on Human Rights concerning national institutions for the promotion
and protection of human rights,

Stressing the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 22/ the International Covenants on Human Rights 23/ and other
international instruments for promoting respect for and observance of human
rights and fundamental freedoms,

Convinced of the important role national institutions play in promoting and
protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms and in developing and enhancing
public awareness of those rights and freedoms,

Mindful in this regard of the guidelines on the structure and functioning
of national and local institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 33/46 of
14 December 1978,

22/ Resolution 217 A (III).

23/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 29

Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, 24/ in which
the World Conference on Human Rights reaffirmed the important and constructive
role played by national institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights, in particular in their advisory capacity to the competent authorities,
their role in remedying human rights violations, in the dissemination of human
rights information and in education in human rights,

Noting the diverse approaches adopted throughout the world for the
protection and promotion of human rights at the national level, emphasizing the
universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights, and
emphasizing and recognizing the value of such approaches to promoting universal
respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Recalling the principles relating to the status of national institutions
for the promotion and protection of human rights, as contained in the annex to
General Assembly resolution 48/134 of 20 December 1993, and recognizing the need
for their continued dissemination,

Welcoming the growing interest shown worldwide in the creation and
strengthening of independent and pluralistic national institutions,

Recognizing that the United Nations plays an important role in assisting
the development of national institutions,

Noting with satisfaction the constructive participation of representatives
of a number of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights in international seminars and workshops,

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the updated report of the Secretary-
General on national institutions for the protection and promotion of human
rights; 25/

2. Reaffirms the importance of the development of effective, independent
and pluralistic national institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights in keeping with the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and,
inter alia, the principles relating to the status of national institutions for
the promotion and protection of human rights contained in the annex to General
Assembly resolution 48/134, and recognizes that it is the right of each State to
choose the framework that is best suited to its particular needs at the national
level;

3. Encourages Member States to establish or, where they already exist, to
strengthen national institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights, as outlined in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, and,
where appropriate, to incorporate those elements in national development plans
or in their preparation of national action plans;

24/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

25/ A/50/452.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 30

4. Encourages national institutions for the promotion and protection of
human rights established by Member States to prevent and combat all violations
of human rights as enumerated in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action
and relevant international instruments;

5. Affirms the role of national institutions, where they exist, as
appropriate agencies for the dissemination of human rights materials and the
public information activities, including those of the United Nations;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to give a high priority to requests
from Member States for assistance in the establishment and strengthening of
national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights as part
of the programme of advisory services and technical assistance in the field of
human rights, and invites Governments to contribute to the United Nations
Voluntary Fund for Advisory Services and Technical Assistance in the Field of
Human Rights for these purposes;

7. Notes the role of the Coordinating Committee created by national
institutions at the second International Workshop on National Institutions for
the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, held at Tunis from 13 to
17 December 1993, in close cooperation with the Centre for Human Rights of the
Secretariat, to assist Governments and institutions, when requested, to follow
up on relevant resolutions and recommendations concerning the strengthening of
national institutions;

8. Also notes the importance of finding an appropriate form of
participation by national institutions in relevant United Nations meetings
dealing with human rights;

9. Recognizes the important and constructive role that non-governmental
organizations may play, in cooperation with national institutions, for the
better promotion and protection of human rights;

10. Encourages all Member States to take appropriate steps to promote the
exchange of information and experience concerning the establishment and
effective operation of such national institutions;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 31

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, 26/

Reaffirming article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
according to which "education shall be directed to the full development of the
human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms",

Recalling the provisions of other international human rights instruments,
such as those of article 13 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights 27/ and article 28 of the Convention on the Rights of the
Child, 28/ that reflect the aims of the aforementioned article,

Taking into account Commission on Human rights resolution 1993/56 of
9 March 1993, in which the Commission recommended that knowledge of human
rights, both in its theoretical dimension and its practical application, should
be established as a priority in educational policies,

Convinced that human rights education should involve more than the
provision of information and should constitute a comprehensive life-long process
by which people at all levels in development and in all strata of society learn
respect for the dignity of others and the means and methods of ensuring that
respect in all societies,

Convinced also that human rights education contributes to a concept of
development consistent with the dignity of women and men of all ages that takes
into account the diverse segments of society such as children, indigenous
people, minorities and disabled persons,

Taking into account the efforts to promote human rights education made by
educators and non-governmental organizations in all parts of the world, as well
as by intergovernmental organizations, including the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, the International Labour Organization and
the United Nations Children’s Fund,

Convinced that each woman, man and child, to realize their full human
potential, must be made aware of all their human rights - civil, cultural,
economic, political and social,

26/ Resolution 217 A (III).

27/ See resolution 2200 (XXI), annex.

28/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 32

Believing that human rights education constitutes an important vehicle for
the elimination of gender-based discrimination and ensuring equal opportunities
through the promotion and protection of the human rights of women,

Aware of the experience in human rights education of United Nations peace-
building operations, including the United Nations Observer Mission in
El Salvador and the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia,

Considering the World Plan of Action on Education for Human Rights and
Democracy, 29/ adopted by the International Congress on Education for Human
Rights and Democracy convened by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization at Montreal from 8 to 11 March 1993, according to which
education for human rights and democracy is itself a human right and a
prerequisite for the realization of human rights, democracy and social justice,

Bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by
the World Conference on Human Rights at Vienna on 25 June 1993, 30/ in
particular section II, paragraphs 78 to 82 thereof,

Recalling that it is the responsibility of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights to coordinate relevant United Nations education
and public information programmes in the field of human rights,

Recalling its resolution 49/184 of 23 December 1994, by which it proclaimed
the ten-year period beginning on 1 January 1995 the United Nations Decade for
Human Rights Education, welcomed the Plan of Action for the Decade, as contained
in the report of the Secretary-General, 31/ and requested the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights to coordinate the implementation of the Plan
of Action,

Taking note of the report of the High Commissioner to the General
Assembly, 32/ in which he stated that human rights education was essential
for the encouragement of harmonious intercommunity relations, for mutual
tolerance and understanding and, finally, for peace,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights on the implementation of the Plan of Action for
the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education, 33/ submitted in
accordance with General Assembly resolution 49/184;

29/ See A/CONF.157/PC/42/Add.6.

30/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

31/ A/49/261/Add.1-E/1994/110/Add.1, annex.

32/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement
No. 36 (A/50/36), para. 54.

33/ A/50/698.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 33

2. Appeals to all Governments to contribute to the implementation of the
Plan of Action, and in particular, in accordance with national conditions, to
establish a national focal point (national committee) for human rights education
and a resource and training centre for human rights education, or, where such a
centre already exists, to work towards its strengthening, and to develop and
implement an action-oriented national plan for human rights education, as
foreseen in the Plan of Action;

3. Requests the High Commissioner to coordinate the implementation of the
Plan of Action and to carry out the tasks enumerated therein;

4. Requests the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat and the
Commission on Human Rights, in cooperation with the existing human rights
monitoring bodies, United Nations specialized agencies and programmes, other
competent intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to support
efforts by the High Commissioner in the implementation of the Plan of Action;

5. Requests the existing human rights monitoring bodies to place emphasis
on the implementation by Member States of their international obligation to
promote human rights education;

6. Invites all relevant specialized agencies, in particular the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the International
Labour Organization, United Nations bodies, especially the United Nations
Children’s Fund, and other intergovernmental organizations to contribute, within
their respective spheres of competence, to the implementation of the Plan of
Action and to cooperate with the High Commissioner for that purpose;

7. Calls upon international, regional and national non-governmental
organizations, in particular those concerned with women, labour, development and
the environment, as well as other social justice groups, human rights advocates,
educators, religious organizations and the media, to increase their involvement
in formal and non-formal education in human rights and to cooperate with the
High Commissioner and the Centre for Human Rights in implementing the Plan of
Action;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to consider the possibility of
establishing a voluntary fund for human rights education, with special provision
for the support of the human rights education activities of non-governmental
organizations, to be administered by the Centre for Human Rights;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the
attention of all members of the international community and to intergovernmental
and non-governmental organizations concerned with human rights and education;

10. Decides to consider this matter at its fifty-first session under the
item entitled "Human rights questions".

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 34

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Situation of human rights in Cambodia

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles embodied in the Charter of the United
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 34/ and the International
Covenants on Human Rights, 35/

Taking note of the Agreement on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the
Cambodia Conflict, 36/ signed in Paris on 23 October 1991, including part III
thereof, relating to human rights,

Recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/55 of
3 March 1995, 37/ General Assembly resolution 49/199 of 23 December 1994 and
previous relevant resolutions, including Commission on Human Rights resolution
1993/6 of 19 February 1993, 38/ in which the Commission recommended the
appointment of a special representative in Cambodia, and the subsequent
appointment by the Secretary-General of a Special Representative,

Bearing in mind the role and responsibilities of the United Nations and the
international community in the process of the rehabilitation and reconstruction
of Cambodia,

Recognizing that the tragic recent history of Cambodia requires special
measures to assure the promotion and protection of the human rights of all
people in Cambodia and the non-return to the policies and practices of the past,
as stipulated in the Agreement signed in Paris on 23 October 1991,

Commending the continued operation in Cambodia of the office of the Centre
for Human Rights of the Secretariat,

Welcoming the understanding reached between the Special Envoy of the
Secretary-General and the Government of Cambodia in May 1995 regarding increased
consultations between the Centre for Human Rights and the Government of
Cambodia,

34/ Resolution 217 A (III).

35/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

36/ See A/46/608-S/23177; see Official Records of the Security Council,
Forty-sixth Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1991, document
S/23177, annex.

37/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995,
Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

38/ Ibid., 1993, Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 35

1. Requests the Secretary-General to assure the protection of the human
rights of all people in Cambodia and to ensure adequate resources, from within
existing United Nations resources, for the enhanced functioning of the
operational presence in Cambodia of the Centre for Human Rights of the
Secretariat;

2. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the role of the Centre
for Human Rights in assisting the Government and people of Cambodia in the
promotion and protection of human rights; 39/

3. Also welcomes the continuing role of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights in the promotion and protection of human rights in
Cambodia;

4. Welcomes and encourages the efforts of individuals, non-governmental
organizations, Governments and international organizations involved in human
rights activities in Cambodia;

5. Takes note with appreciation of the most recent report submitted by
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the situation of human
rights in Cambodia, 40/ and endorses his recommendations and conclusions,
including those aimed at ensuring the independence of the judiciary and the
establishment of the rule of law, good governance, freedom of expression and the
promotion of an effective functioning multi-party democracy;

6. Notes that communal elections are due to be held in 1996 or early 1997
and National Assembly elections in 1998, and urges the Government of Cambodia to
promote and uphold the effective functioning of multi-party democracy, including
the right to form political parties, stand for election, take part freely in a
representative government and freedom of expression, in accordance with the
principles set out in paragraphs 2 and 4, of annex 5 to the Agreement signed in
Paris on 23 October 1991;

7. Requests the Special Representative, in collaboration with the office
in Cambodia of the Centre for Human Rights, to continue his evaluation of the
extent to which the recommendations made by the Special Representative in his
report, 40/ and those contained in his previous reports, are followed up and
implemented, and strongly encourages the Government of Cambodia to continue to
cooperate with the Special Representative;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary resources,
from within the regular budget of the United Nations, to enable the Special
Representative to continue to fulfil his tasks expeditiously;

9. Welcomes the efforts made by the Government of Cambodia to promote and
protect human rights, in particular in the essential area of creating a

39/ A/50/681/Add.1.

40/ A/50/681.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 36

functioning system of justice, urges that efforts continue in this area and also
encourages the Government to improve the conditions of prisons;

10. Expresses grave concern about the atrocities that continue to be
committed by the Khmer Rouge, including the taking and killing of hostages, and
other deplorable incidents detailed in the reports of the Special
Representative;

11. Also expresses grave concern about the serious violations of human
rights as detailed by the Special Representative in his report, and calls upon
the Government of Cambodia to prosecute in accordance with the due process of
the law and international standards relating to human rights all those who have
perpetrated human rights violations;

12. Expresses particularly grave concern at the comments made by the
Special Representative concerning the reluctance of the courts to charge members
of the military and other security forces for serious criminal offences, and
encourages the Government of Cambodia to address this problem, which in effect
places persons in authority above the principle of equality before the law;

13. Expresses grave concern at the devastating consequences and
destabilizing effects of the indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines on
Cambodian society, encourages the Government of Cambodia to continue its support
and efforts for the removal of these mines, and welcomes the intention of the
Government of Cambodia to ban all anti-personnel landmines;

14. Calls upon the Government of Cambodia to ensure the full observance of
human rights for all persons within its jurisdiction in accordance with the
International Covenants on Human Rights and other human rights instruments to
which Cambodia is a party;

15. Encourages the Government of Cambodia to continue its efforts to meet
its reporting obligations under international human rights instruments, drawing
on the assistance of the office in Cambodia of the Centre for Human Rights;

16. Also encourages the Government of Cambodia to request the Centre for
Human Rights to provide advice and technical assistance with respect to the
creation of an independent national institution for the promotion and protection
of human rights;

17. Further encourages the Government of Cambodia to maintain constructive
dialogue and consultation with the Centre for Human Rights concerning its
activities in Cambodia;

18. Commends the ongoing efforts of the office in Cambodia of the Centre
for Human Rights in supporting and assisting the Government of Cambodia, as well
as non-governmental organizations and others involved in the promotion and
protection of human rights in cooperation with the Government of Cambodia;

19. Condemns unreservedly attacks on and threats against United Nations,
non-governmental organization and Cambodian government staff, as well as
individuals, and calls upon the Government of Cambodia to investigate those

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 37

attacks and threats and to prosecute those who are responsible, in accordance
with the due process of the law and international standards relating to the
administration of justice;

20. Notes with appreciation the use by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations Trust Fund for a Human Rights Education Programme in Cambodia to finance
the programme of activities of the office in Cambodia of the Centre for Human
Rights as defined in resolutions of the General Assembly and the Commission on
Human Rights, and invites Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, foundations and individuals to consider contributing funds to the
Trust Fund;

21. Requests the Centre for Human Rights, in cooperation with the relevant
specialized agencies and development programmes, to develop and implement
programmes, with the consent and cooperation of the Government of Cambodia, in
the priority areas identified by the Special Representative, paying particular
attention to vulnerable groups, including women, children and minorities;

22. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session on the role of the Centre for Human Rights in assisting
the Government and people of Cambodia in the promotion and protection of human
rights and on the recommendations made by the Special Representative on matters
within his mandate;

23. Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights
in Cambodia at its fifty-first session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Strengthening of the rule of law

The General Assembly,

Recalling that, by adopting the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 41/ Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in cooperation
with the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance
of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Firmly convinced that, as stressed in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the rule of law is an essential factor in the protection of human
rights,

Convinced that through their own national legal and judicial systems States
must provide appropriate civil, criminal and administrative remedies for
violations of human rights,

41/ Resolution 217 A (III).

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 38

Recognizing the importance of the role that can be played by the Centre for
Human Rights of the Secretariat in supporting national efforts to strengthen the
institutions of the rule of law,

Bearing in mind that, in its resolution 48/141 of 20 December 1993, the
General Assembly entrusted the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
with, inter alia, providing through the Centre and other appropriate
institutions advisory services and technical and financial assistance in the
field of human rights, enhancing international cooperation for the promotion and
protection of all human rights and coordinating human rights activities
throughout the United Nations system,

Recalling the recommendation of the World Conference on Human Rights that a
comprehensive programme be established within the United Nations and under the
coordination of the Centre with a view to helping States in the task of building
and strengthening adequate national structures that have a direct impact on the
overall observance of human rights and the maintenance of the rule of
law, 42/

Recalling also its resolution 49/194 of 23 December 1994, and taking note
of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/54 of 3 March 1995, 43/

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-
General; 44/

2. Takes note with interest of the proposals contained in the report of
the Secretary-General for strengthening the programme of advisory services and
technical assistance of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat in order
to comply fully with the recommendations of the World Conference on Human Rights
concerning assistance to States in strengthening their institutions in the rule
of law;

3. Praises the efforts made by the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights and the Centre to accomplish their ever-increasing tasks with the
limited financial and personnel resources at their disposal;

4. Expresses its deep concern at the scarcity of means at the disposal of
the Centre for the fulfilment of its tasks;

5. Notes that the programme of advisory services and technical assistance
does not have assistance funds sufficient to provide any substantial financial
assistance to national projects that have a direct impact on the realization of
human rights and the maintenance of the rule of law in countries that are
committed to those ends, but which face economic hardship;

42/ A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. II, para. 69.

43/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995,
Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/1995/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.

44/ A/50/653.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 39

6. Affirms that the High Commissioner, with the assistance of the Centre,
remains the focal point for coordinating system-wide attention for human rights,
democracy and the rule of law;

7. Welcomes the consultations and contacts initiated by the High
Commissioner with other relevant bodies and programmes of the United Nations
system aiming at the enhancement of inter-agency coordination and cooperation in
providing assistance for the strengthening of the rule of law;

8. Encourages the High Commissioner to pursue these consultations, taking
into account the need to explore new synergies with other organs and agencies of
the United Nations system with a view to obtaining increased financial
assistance for human rights and the rule of law;

9. Requests the High Commissioner to continue to explore the
possibilities of obtaining from all relevant institutions of the United Nations
system, including financial institutions, acting within their mandates,
technical and financial means to strengthen the capacity of the Centre to
provide assistance to national projects aiming at the realization of human
rights and the maintenance of the rule of law;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-first session on the results of the contacts established
in accordance with paragraph 9 above, as well as on any other developments
pertaining to the implementation of the above-mentioned recommendation of the
World Conference on Human Rights. 42/

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Effective promotion of the Declaration on the Rights
of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious

and Linguistic Minorities

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 47/135 of 18 December 1992, by which it adopted
the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic,
Religious and Linguistic Minorities, as well as its resolution 49/192 of
23 December 1994,

Conscious of the need effectively to promote and protect the rights of
persons belonging to minorities, as set out in the Declaration,

Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/24 of
3 March 1995 45/ on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic,
religious and linguistic minorities, in which the Commission, inter alia,
decided to authorize the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and

45/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 40

Protection of Minorities to establish, initially for a three-year period, an
inter-sessional working group consisting of five of its members, to meet each
year for five working days in order to promote the rights of persons belonging
to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1995/31 of 25 July 1995,
in which the Council authorized the establishment of the Working Group,

Noting that the Working Group held its first session from 28 August to
1 September 1995, and that its report will be made available to the Commission
on Human Rights,

Aware of the provisions of article 27 of the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights 46/ concerning the rights of persons belonging to
ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities,

Acknowledging that the United Nations has an increasingly important role to
play regarding the protection of minorities by, inter alia, taking due account
of and giving effect to the Declaration,

Concerned by the growing frequency and severity of disputes and conflicts
concerning minorities in many countries, and their often tragic consequences,

Affirming that effective measures and the creation of favourable conditions
for the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to national
or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, ensuring effective
non-discrimination and equality for all, contribute to the prevention and
peaceful solution of human rights problems and situations involving minorities,

Considering that the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities contribute
to political and social stability and peace and enrich the cultural heritage of
society as a whole of the States in which such persons live,

Reaffirming the obligation of States to ensure that persons belonging to
minorities may exercise fully and effectively all human rights and fundamental
freedoms without any discrimination and in full equality before the law in
accordance with the Declaration,

Noting the positive initiatives of many countries as well as regional
organizations to protect minorities and promote mutual understanding,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the effective
promotion of the Declaration, 47/

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General;

46/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

47/ A/50/514.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 41

2. Urges States and the international community to promote and protect
the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities, as set out in the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to
National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, including through the
facilitation of their full participation in all aspects of the political,
economic, social, religious and cultural life of society and in the economic
progress and development in their country;

3. Urges States to take, as appropriate, all the necessary
constitutional, legislative, administrative and other measures to promote and
give effect to the principles contained in the Declaration;

4. Appeals to States to make bilateral and multilateral efforts, as
appropriate, in order to protect the rights of persons belonging to national or
ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities in their countries, in accordance
with the Declaration;

5. Recognizes that respect for human rights and the promotion of
understanding and tolerance by Governments as well as between and among
minorities is central to the protection and promotion of the rights of persons
belonging to minorities;

6. Calls upon the Secretary-General to make available, at the request of
Governments concerned, qualified expertise on minority issues, including the
prevention and resolution of disputes to assist in existing or potential
situations involving minorities;

7. Requests the Secretary-General, in the implementation of the present
resolution, to provide human and financial resources for such advisory services
and technical assistance of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat,
within existing resources;

8. Calls upon the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to
promote, within his mandate, the implementation of the Declaration and to
continue to engage in a dialogue with Governments concerned for that purpose;

9. Urges all treaty bodies and special representatives, special
rapporteurs and working groups of the Commission on Human Rights and the
Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to
give due regard, within their respective mandates, to the promotion and
protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities;

10. Invites States, interested intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, special representatives, special rapporteurs and working groups
of the Commission on Human Rights to continue to submit, as appropriate,
contributions as to how they promote and give effect to the Declaration;

11. Invites the Secretary-General to continue the dissemination of
information on the Declaration and the promotion of understanding thereof,
including through activities within the framework of the United Nations Decade
for Human Rights Education;

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 42

12. Calls upon States and the Secretary-General to give due regard to the
Declaration in their respective training programmes for officials;

13. Encourages intergovernmental as well as non-governmental organizations
to continue to contribute to the promotion and protection of the rights of
persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution under
the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Human rights in the administration of justice

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 48/137 of 20 December 1993, and taking note of
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/41 of 3 March 1995 on human rights in
the administration of justice, in particular of children and juveniles in
detention, 48/

Bearing in mind the principles embodied in articles 3, 5, 9, 10 and 11 of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 49/ and the relevant provisions of
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Optional
Protocols thereto, 50/ in particular article 6 of the Covenant, which
explicitly states that no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life and
prohibits the imposition of the death penalty for crimes committed by persons
below eighteen years of age,

Bearing in mind also the relevant principles embodied in the Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punishment, 51/ the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Racial Discrimination 52/ and the Convention on the Rights of
the Child, 53/

48/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

49/ Resolution 217 A (III).

50/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex, and resolution 44/128, annex.

51/ Resolution 39/46, annex.

52/ Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

53/ Resolution 44/25, annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 43

Mindful of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women, 54/ in particular of the obligation of States to treat men and
women equally in all stages of procedures in courts and tribunals,

Calling attention to the numerous international standards in the field of
the administration of justice,

Recognizing that the rule of law and the proper administration of justice
are important elements for sustainable economic and social development and play
a central role in the promotion and protection of human rights,

Welcoming the important work of the Commission on Human Rights and of the
Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities in
the field of human rights in the administration of justice, in particular
regarding the independence of the judiciary, the independence of judges and
lawyers, the right to a fair trial, habeas corpus, human rights and states of
emergency, the question of arbitrary detention, the human rights of juveniles in
detention, the privatization of prisons and the question of the impunity of
perpetrators of violations of human rights,

Welcoming also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/36 of
3 March 1995 on the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, jurors and
assessors and the independence of lawyers, 48/

Welcoming further the important work of the Commission on Crime Prevention
and Criminal Justice in the field of human rights in the administration of
justice, as reflected, inter alia, in Economic and Social Council resolutions
1995/13 of 24 July 1995 on United Nations standards and norms in crime
prevention and criminal justice, and 1995/15 of the same date on technical
cooperation and interregional advisory services in crime prevention and criminal
justice,

Emphasizing the importance of coordinating the activities in this field
carried out under the responsibility of the Commission on Human Rights with
those under the responsibility of the Commission on Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice,

Noting that many human rights violations in the administration of justice
are specifically or primarily directed against women and that the identification
and reporting of those violations demand special vigilance,

Aware of the specific situation of children and juveniles in detention and
their special needs while deprived of their liberty, in particular their
vulnerability to various forms of abuse, injustice and humiliation,

1. Reaffirms the importance of the full and effective implementation of
all United Nations standards on human rights in the administration of justice;

54/ Resolution 34/180, annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 44

2. Acknowledges that the administration of justice, including law
enforcement and prosecutorial agencies and, especially, an independent judiciary
and legal profession in full conformity with applicable standards contained in
international human rights instruments, are essential to the full and
non-discriminatory realization of human rights and indispensable to
democratization processes and sustainable development;

3. Reiterates once again its call on all Member States to spare no effort
in providing for effective legislative and other mechanisms and procedures, as
well as adequate resources, to ensure full implementation of those standards;

4. Appeals to Governments to include in their national development plans
the administration of justice as an integral part of the development process and
to allocate adequate resources for the provision of legal-aid services with a
view to the promotion and protection of human rights;

5. Invites Governments to provide training in human rights in the
administration of justice, including juvenile justice, to all judges, lawyers,
prosecutors, social workers and other professionals concerned, including police
and immigration officers;

6. Encourages States to make use of technical assistance offered by the
United Nations programmes of advisory services and technical assistance, in
order to strengthen national capacities and infrastructures in the field of
administration of justice;

7. Urges the Secretary-General to consider favourably requests by States
for assistance in the field of the administration of justice and to strengthen
system-wide coordination in this field, in particular between the United Nations
programme of advisory services and technical assistance in the field of human
rights and the technical cooperation and advisory services of the United Nations
crime prevention and criminal justice programme;

8. Invites the international community to respond favourably to requests
for financial and technical assistance for the enhancement and strengthening of
the administration of justice, with a view to ensuring the promotion and
protection of human rights in the administration of justice;

9. Calls upon special rapporteurs, special representatives and working
groups of the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give special attention
to questions relating to the effective protection of human rights in the
administration of justice and to provide, wherever appropriate, specific
recommendations in this regard, including proposals for concrete measures of
advisory services and technical assistance;

10. Acknowledges the important role of the regional commissions,
specialized agencies and United Nations institutes in the area of human rights
and crime prevention and criminal justice, and of other organizations of the
United Nations system, as well as intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, including national professional associations concerned with
promoting United Nations standards in this field;

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 45

11. Invites the Commission on Human Rights and the Commission on Crime
Prevention and Criminal Justice to coordinate closely their activities relating
to the administration of justice;

12. Decides to consider the question of human rights in the administration
of justice at its fifty-second session under the item entitled "Human rights
questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Human rights and mass exoduses

The General Assembly,

Deeply disturbed by the escalating scale and magnitude of exoduses of
refugees and displacements of population in many regions of the world and by the
human suffering of millions of refugees and displaced persons,

Recalling its previous relevant resolutions, as well as those of the
Commission on Human Rights, in particular resolution 1995/88 of
8 March 1995, 55/ and the conclusions of the World Conference on Human
Rights, 56/ which recognized that gross violations of human rights, including
in armed conflicts, are among the multiple and complex factors leading to
displacement of people, and the need for a comprehensive approach by the
international community to address root causes and effects of movements of
refugees and other displaced persons and the strengthening of emergency
preparedness and response mechanisms,

Conscious of the fact that mass exoduses of populations are caused by
multiple and complex factors, such as human rights violations, political, ethnic
and economic conflicts, famine, insecurity, violence, poverty and environmental
degradation, which indicate that any approach to early warning requires an
intersectoral and multidisciplinary approach,

Noting that the Secretary-General, in his report entitled "An Agenda for
Peace", 57/ identifies the protection of human rights and the promotion of
economic well-being as important elements of peace, security and development,

Noting the continuation of the inter-agency consultations on early warning
regarding new mass flows of refugees and displaced persons,

55/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

56/ See Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

57/ A/47/277-S/24111.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 46

Recognizing the important aspects of complementarity between the system for
the protection of human rights and humanitarian action, and that humanitarian
agencies make an important contribution to the achievement of human rights,

Stressing the need for strengthening international cooperation aimed at
averting new massive flows of refugees while providing durable solutions to
actual refugee situations,

Recognizing that the human rights machinery of the United Nations,
including the mechanisms of the Commission on Human Rights and the human rights
treaty bodies, has important capabilities to address human rights violations
that cause movements of refugees and displaced persons or prevent durable
solutions to their plight,

Recognizing that women and children constitute approximately 80 per cent of
most refugee populations and that, in addition to the problems and needs they
share with all refugees, women and girls in such circumstances are vulnerable to
gender-based discrimination and gender-specific violence and exploitation,

Reiterating that development and rehabilitation assistance is essential in
addressing some of the causes of mass exoduses and also in the context of the
development of prevention strategies,

Welcoming the continuing efforts of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees to meet the protection and assistance needs of refugees and other
persons of concern to her Office worldwide,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on human rights and
mass exoduses; 58/

2. Welcomes the endorsement by the General Assembly, in its resolution
41/70 of 3 December 1986, of the call upon all States to promote human rights
and fundamental freedoms and to refrain from denying these to individuals in
their population because of nationality, ethnicity, race, religion or language;

3. Strongly deplores ethnic and other forms of intolerance as one of the
major causes of forced migratory movements, and urges States to take all
necessary steps to ensure respect for human rights, especially the rights of
persons belonging to minorities;

4. Invites again all Governments and intergovernmental, humanitarian and
non-governmental organizations concerned to intensify their cooperation and
assistance in worldwide efforts to address the serious problems resulting from
mass exoduses of refugees and displaced persons, and the causes of such
exoduses;

58/ A/50/566.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 47

5. Encourages States that have not already done so to consider acceding
to the 1951 Convention 59/ and the 1967 Protocol 60/ relating to the
Status of Refugees and to other relevant regional refugee instruments, as
applicable, and relevant international human rights instruments;

6. Notes with appreciation the contribution made by the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights of the
Secretariat to the development of the humanitarian early-warning system of the
Department of Humanitarian Affairs, and takes note of ongoing consultations in
this regard;

7. Invites the special rapporteurs, special representatives and working
groups of the Commission on Human Rights and the United Nations human rights
treaty bodies, acting within their mandates, to continue seeking information,
where appropriate, on problems resulting in mass exoduses of populations or
impeding their voluntary return home and, where appropriate, to include such
information, together with recommendations thereon, in their reports, and to
bring such information to the attention of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights, for appropriate action within his mandate, in consultation
with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;

8. Requests all United Nations bodies, including the human rights treaty
bodies, the specialized agencies and governmental, intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations, to cooperate fully with all mechanisms of the
Commission and, in particular, to provide them with all relevant information in
their possession on the human rights situations creating or affecting refugees
and displaced persons;

9. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in
accordance with his mandate, as set out in General Assembly resolution 48/141 of
20 December 1993, and in cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees, to pay attention to situations that cause or threaten to cause
mass exoduses and to address effectively such situations through emergency
preparedness and response mechanisms, including information-sharing with United
Nations early-warning mechanisms, and the provision of technical advice,
expertise and cooperation;

10. Invites the Secretary-General to attach high priority and to make
available the necessary resources within the regular budget of the United
Nations for the consolidation and strengthening of emergency preparedness and
response mechanisms, including early-warning activities in the humanitarian
area, for the purpose of ensuring, inter alia, that effective action is taken to
identify all multiple and complex factors, including human rights violations,
that contribute to mass outflows of persons;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session a report containing detailed information on

59/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No. 2545.

60/ Ibid., vol. 606, No. 8791.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 48

the programmatic, institutional, administrative, financial and managerial
efforts instituted to enhance the capacity of the United Nations to avert new
flows of refugees and to tackle the root causes of such outflows;

12. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-
second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

Elimination of all forms of religious intolerance

The General Assembly,

Recalling that all States have pledged themselves, under the Charter of the
United Nations, to promote and encourage universal respect for and observance of
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race,
sex, language or religion,

Recognizing that these rights derive from the inherent dignity of the human
person,

Emphasizing that the right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and
belief is far-reaching and profound and that it encompasses freedom of thought
on all matters, personal conviction and the commitment to religion or belief,
whether manifested individually or in community with others,

Recalling article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights, 61/

Reaffirming that discrimination against human beings on the grounds of
religion or belief constitutes an affront to human dignity and a disavowal of
the principles of the Charter,

Reaffirming its resolution 36/55 of 25 November 1981, by which it
proclaimed the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of
Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief,

Reaffirming the call of the World Conference on Human Rights for all
Governments to take all appropriate measures in compliance with their
international obligations and with due regard to their respective legal systems
to counter intolerance and related violence based on religion or belief,
including practices of discrimination against women and the desecration of
religious sites, recognizing that every individual has the right to freedom of
thought, conscience, expression and religion,

Recalling that the World Conference on Human Rights recognized that the
process of promoting and protecting human rights should be conducted in

61/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 49

conformity with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
and international law,

Calling upon all Governments to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur of
the Commission on Human Rights on religious intolerance to enable him to carry
out his mandate fully,

Recognizing that it is desirable to enhance the promotional and public
information activities of the United Nations in matters relating to freedom of
religion or belief and that both Governments and non-governmental organizations
have an important role to play in this domain,

Emphasizing that non-governmental organizations and religious bodies and
groups at every level have an important role to play in the promotion of
tolerance and the protection of freedom of religion or belief,

Conscious of the importance of education in ensuring tolerance of religion
and belief,

Welcoming the inclusion of events relating to tolerance and religious
diversity among the activities undertaken during the United Nations Year for
Tolerance,

Alarmed that serious instances of intolerance and discrimination on the
grounds of religion or belief, including acts of violence, intimidation and
coercion motivated by religious extremism, occur in many parts of the world and
threaten the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Deeply concerned that, as reported by the Special Rapporteur, the rights
violated on religious grounds include the right to life, the right to physical
integrity and to liberty and security of person, the right to freedom of
expression, the right not to be subjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment, and the right not to be arbitrarily arrested
or detained,

Believing that further efforts are therefore required to promote and
protect the right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief and to
eliminate all forms of hatred, intolerance and discrimination based on religion
or belief,

1. Reaffirms that freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief is
a human right derived from the inherent dignity of the human person and
guaranteed to all without discrimination;

2. Urges States to ensure that their constitutional and legal systems
provide adequate and effective guarantees of freedom of thought, conscience,
religion and belief to all without discrimination, including the provision of
effective remedies in cases where the right to freedom of religion or belief is
violated;

3. Also urges States to ensure, in particular, that no one within their
jurisdiction is, because of their religion or belief, deprived of the right to

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 50

life or the right to liberty and security of person, or is subjected to torture
or arbitrary arrest or detention;

4. Condemns all instances of hatred, intolerance and acts of violence,
intimidation and coercion motivated by religious extremism and intolerance of
religion or belief;

5. Urges States, in conformity with international standards of human
rights, to take all necessary action to prevent such instances, to take all
appropriate measures to combat hatred, intolerance and acts of violence,
intimidation and coercion motivated by religious extremism and to encourage
understanding, tolerance and respect in matters relating to freedom of religion
or belief;

6. Recognizes that legislation alone is not enough to prevent violations
of human rights, including the right to freedom of religion or belief;

7. Emphasizes that, as underlined by the Human Rights Committee,
restrictions on the freedom to manifest religion or belief are permitted only if
limitations are prescribed by law, are necessary to protect public safety,
order, health or morals, or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others, and
are applied in a manner that does not vitiate the right to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion;

8. Urges States to ensure that, in the course of their official duties,
members of law enforcement bodies, civil servants, educators and other public
officials respect different religions and beliefs and do not discriminate
against persons professing other religions or beliefs;

9. Calls upon all States to recognize, as provided in the Declaration on
the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on
Religion or Belief, the right of all persons to worship or assemble in
connection with a religion or belief, and to establish and maintain places for
those purposes;

10. Expresses its grave concern at any attack upon religious places, sites
and shrines, and calls upon all States, in accordance with their national
legislation and in conformity with international human rights standards, to
exert utmost efforts to ensure that such places, sites and shrines are fully
respected and protected;

11. Recognizes that the exercise of tolerance and non-discrimination by
persons and groups is necessary for the full realization of the aims of the
Declaration;

12. Considers it desirable to enhance the promotional and public
information activities of the United Nations in matters relating to freedom of
religion or belief and to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to this
end, including the dissemination, as a matter of high priority, of the text of
the Declaration by United Nations information centres, as well as by other
interested bodies;

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 51

13. Encourages the continued efforts on the part of the Special Rapporteur
appointed to examine incidents and governmental actions in all parts of the
world that are incompatible with the provisions of the Declaration and to
recommend remedial measures as appropriate;

14. Invites the Special Rapporteur, within the terms of his mandate and in
the context of recommending remedial measures, to take into account the
experiences of various States as to which measures are most effective in
promoting freedom of religion and belief and countering all forms of
intolerance;

15. Encourages Governments to give serious consideration to inviting the
Special Rapporteur to visit their countries so as to enable him to fulfil his
mandate even more effectively;

16. Recommends that the promotion and protection of the right to freedom
of thought, conscience, religion and belief be given appropriate priority in the
work of the United Nations programme of advisory services in the field of human
rights, including with regard to the drafting of legal texts in conformity with
international instruments on human rights and taking into account the provisions
of the Declaration;

17. Welcomes and encourages the efforts of non-governmental organizations
to promote the implementation of the Declaration, and invites them to consider
what further contribution they could make to its implementation and
dissemination in all parts of the world;

18. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue its consideration
of measures to implement the Declaration;

19. Requests the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights to
submit an interim report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

20. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Special Rapporteur
receives the necessary staffing and financial and material resources to enable
him to discharge his mandate;

21. Decides to consider the question of the elimination of all forms of
religious intolerance at its fifty-first session under the item entitled "Human
rights questions".

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 52

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

Right to development

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the Declaration on the Right to Development, 62/ which it
proclaimed at its forty-first session,

Recalling its resolutions 45/97 of 14 December 1990, 46/123 of
17 December 1991, 47/123 of 18 December 1992, 48/130 of 20 December 1993 and
49/183 of 23 December 1994 and those of the Commission on Human Rights relating
to the right to development, and taking note of Commission resolution 1995/17 of
24 February 1995, 63/

Recalling also the report on the Global Consultation on the Realization of
the Right to Development as a Human Right, 64/

Recalling further the principles proclaimed in the Rio Declaration on
Environment and Development of 14 June 1992, 65/

Mindful that the Commission on Human Rights continues to consider this
matter, which is directed towards the implementation and further enhancement of
the right to development,

Noting the need for coordination and cooperation throughout the United
Nations system for a more effective promotion of the right to development,

Recognizing that the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and
the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat have important roles to play in
the promotion and protection of the right to development,

Reaffirming the need for action at the national and international levels by
all States to realize all human rights, and the need for relevant evaluation
mechanisms to ensure the promotion, encouragement and reinforcement of the
principles contained in the Declaration on the Right to Development,

62/ Resolution 41/128, annex.

63/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

64/ E/CN.4/1990/9/Rev.1.

65/ See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions Adopted by the Conference,
resolution 1, annex I.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 53

Welcoming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993, 66/ which reaffirms the
right to development as a universal and inalienable right and an integral part
of all fundamental human rights and reaffirms that the human person is the
central subject of development,

Recalling that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action examined the
relationship between democracy, development and human rights, and recognizing
the importance of creating a favourable environment in which everyone may enjoy
their human rights as set out in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,

Recalling also that lasting progress towards the implementation of the
right to development requires effective development policies at the national
level, as well as equitable economic relations and a favourable economic
environment at the international level,

Recalling further that, in order to promote development, equal attention
and urgent consideration should be given to the implementation, promotion and
protection of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, and
recognizing that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and
interrelated and that the universality, objectivity, impartiality and
non-selectivity of the consideration of human rights issues must be ensured,

Noting that aspects of the Programme of Action of the International
Conference on Population and Development, 67/ held at Cairo from 5 to
13 September 1994, the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development 68/ and
the Programme of Action adopted by the World Summit for Social
Development, 69/ held at Copenhagen from 6 to 12 March 1995, and the Beijing
Declaration and Platform for Action 70/ adopted by the Fourth World
Conference on Women, held at Beijing from 4 to 15 September 1995, are relevant
to the universal realization of the right to development,

Welcoming the convening of the United Nations Conference on Human
Settlements (Habitat II), and affirming that this Conference constitutes another
important international step towards the realization of the right to
development, within the context of promoting and protecting all human rights,

66/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

67/ Report of the International Conference on Population and Development,
Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.8),
chap. I, resolution 1, annex.

68/ Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen,
6-12 March 1995 (A/CONF.166/9), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.

69/ Ibid., annex II.

70/ Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing,
4-15 September 1995 (A/CONF.177/20), chap. I, resolution 1.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 54

Taking note of the work of the Working Group on the Right to Development
during its fourth 71/ and fifth 72/ sessions, held at Geneva from 15 to
26 May 1995 and from 25 September to 6 October 1995,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the right to
development, 73/ prepared pursuant to General Assembly resolution 49/183,

1. Reaffirms the importance of the right to development for every human
person and all peoples in all countries, in particular the developing countries,
as an integral part of the fundamental human rights;

2. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the right to
development;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the Commission on Human
Rights at its fifty-second session a report on the implementation of Commission
resolution 1995/17;

4. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to consider carefully the
reports of the Working Group on the Right to Development, to assess whether the
Working Group has been able to complete its mandate and to consider thoroughly
the necessity to reconvene the Working Group;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue coordination of the various
activities with regard to the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to
Development;

6. Also requests the Secretary-General to ask the Centre for Human Rights
of the Secretariat to provide a programmatic follow-up on the implementation of
the Declaration on the Right to Development, as part of the efforts to implement
the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action;

7. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, within
his mandate, to continue to take steps for the promotion and protection of the
right to development by, inter alia, working in conjunction with the Centre for
Human Rights and drawing on the expertise of the funds, programmes and
specialized agencies of the United Nations system related to the field of
development;

8. Supports the current initiatives of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, within his mandate, to consult with all relevant
bodies, funds, programmes and specialized agencies of the United Nations system
on how they may promote the right to development;

71/ E/CN.4/1996/10.

72/ E/CN.4/1996/24.

73/ A/50/729.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 55

9. Invites the regional commissions and regional intergovernmental
organizations to consider how they may contribute to the realization of the
right to development, including through convening meetings of governmental
experts and representative non-governmental and grass-roots organizations for
the purpose of seeking arrangements or agreements for the implementation of the
Declaration on the Right to Development through international cooperation;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to inform the Commission on Human
Rights at its fifty-second session and the General Assembly at its fifty-first
session of the activities of the organizations, funds, programmes and
specialized agencies of the United Nations system on the implementation of the
Declaration on the Right to Development;

11. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to continue to make
proposals to the General Assembly, through the Economic and Social Council, on
the future course of action on the question, in particular on practical measures
for the implementation and enhancement of the Declaration on the Right to
Development, taking into account the conclusions and recommendations of the
Global Consultation on the Realization of the Right to Development as a Human
Right and the reports of the Working Group on the Right to Development;

12. Reiterates its commitment to implementing the results of the World
Conference on Human Rights, which reaffirm that all human rights are universal,
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that democracy, development and
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent and
mutually reinforcing;

13. Calls upon all States to address, within the declarations and
programmes of action adopted by the relevant international conferences convened
by the United Nations, the elements for the promotion and protection of the
principles of the right to development, as set out in the Declaration on the
Right to Development;

14. Decides to consider this question at its fifty-first session under the
sub-item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for
improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIV

Strengthening the role of the United Nations in enhancing
the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine

elections and the promotion of democratization

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject, especially resolutions
48/131 of 20 December 1993 and 49/190 of 23 December 1994,

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 56

Recalling also the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by
the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to
25 June 1993, 74/ especially the recognition therein that assistance provided
upon the request of Governments for the conduct of free and fair elections,
including assistance in the human rights aspects of elections and public
information about elections, is of particular importance in the strengthening
and building of institutions relating to human rights and the strengthening of a
pluralistic civil society, and that special emphasis should be given to measures
that assist in achieving those goals, 75/

Reaffirming that electoral assistance and support for the promotion of
democratization are provided only at the specific request of the Member State
concerned,

Recognizing the usefulness of a comprehensive and balanced approach in the
activities carried out by the United Nations in this field in order to
contribute to the strengthening of both democracy and human rights within the
country concerned,

Welcoming the support provided by States to the electoral assistance
activities of the United Nations, inter alia, through the provision of experts
and electoral observers, as well as through contributions to the United Nations
Trust Fund for Electoral Observation,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General, 76/

Noting the continuing high level and evolving nature of requests for
electoral assistance by Member States,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on United Nations
activities aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and
genuine elections; 76/

2. Commends the electoral assistance provided to Member States at their
request by the United Nations, requests that such assistance continue on a case-
by-case basis in accordance with the guidelines on electoral assistance,
recognizing that the fundamental responsibility of organizing free and fair
elections lies with Governments, and also requests the Electoral Assistance
Division of the Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat to continue
to inform Member States on a regular basis about the requests received,
responses given to those requests and the nature of the assistance provided;

3. Requests that the United Nations continue its efforts to ensure,
before undertaking to provide electoral assistance to a requesting State, that

74/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

75/ Ibid., sect. II, para. 67.

76/ A/50/736.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 57

there is adequate time to organize and carry out an effective mission for
providing such assistance, that conditions exist to allow a free and fair
election and that provisions can be made for adequate and comprehensive
reporting of the results of the mission;

4. Commends the steps taken by the United Nations to ensure the
continuation and consolidation of the democratization process in certain Member
States requesting assistance, including the provision of assistance before and
after elections have taken place and needs-assessment missions aimed at
recommending programmes which might contribute to the consolidating of the
democratization process, and requests that such efforts be strengthened;

5. Recommends that the Electoral Assistance Division provide post-
election assistance, as appropriate, to requesting States and electoral
institutions, in order to contribute to the stability and continuity of their
electoral processes, as provided for in the report of the Secretary-General, and
that it study, in cooperation with relevant United Nations offices, ways of
defining more clearly the activities related to democratic consolidation which
the United Nations might usefully undertake in assisting the efforts of
interested States in this regard;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to take further steps to support States
which request assistance by, inter alia, enabling the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, in accordance with his mandate and through the
Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat, to support democratization
activities related to human rights concerns, including, inter alia, human rights
training and education, assistance for human rights-related legislative reform,
strengthening and reform of the judiciary, assistance to national human rights
institutions and advisory services on treaty accession, reporting and
international obligations as related to human rights;

7. Commends the programmes of assistance carried out by the United
Nations Development Programme for civil service reform, and for governance,
especially those for strengthening participation and linkages between concerned
sectors of society and Governments;

8. Recalls the establishment by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations Trust Fund for Electoral Observation, and calls upon Member States to
consider contributing to the Fund;

9. Stresses the importance of coordination within the United Nations
system, including cooperation with the Centre for Human Rights, the Department
for Development Support and Management Services of the Secretariat and the
United Nations Development Programme, which provide advisory services and
technical assistance to requesting Member States, and encourages the Electoral
Assistance Division to strengthen its collaboration with the Centre, including
through an exchange of personnel when appropriate, and with the Department and
the Programme and to continue to inform them of requests submitted in the area
of electoral assistance;

10. Notes with appreciation additional efforts being made to enhance
cooperation with other international, governmental and non-governmental

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 58

organizations in order to facilitate more comprehensive and need-specific
responses to requests for electoral assistance;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Electoral Assistance
Division with adequate human and financial resources, under the regular budget
of the Organization and within existing resources, to allow it to carry out its
mandate, and to continue to ensure that the Centre for Human Rights is able to
respond, within its mandate and in close coordination with the Electoral
Assistance Division, to the increasing number of requests from Member States for
advisory services;

12. Takes note of the evolution in the nature of requests for assistance
and the growing need for specific types of expert assistance aimed at supporting
and strengthening the existing capability of the requesting Government, in
particular, through enhancing the capacity of electoral institutions;

13. Recommends that the Secretary-General consider ways to continue to
improve coordination and to strengthen further the efforts of the Electoral
Assistance Division, the Centre for Human Rights and the United Nations system
in general to respond to its increased and evolving responsibilities and
enlarged mandate in the field of electoral assistance and democratization as
reflected in the present resolution, and to include his recommendations in this
regard in his report to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the implementation of resolution 49/190 and the
present resolution, in particular on the status of requests from Member States
for electoral assistance and verification, and on his efforts to enhance the
Organization’s support of the democratization process in Member States.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XV

Human rights and terrorism

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, 77/ the Declaration on Principles of International Law
concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations 78/ and the International Covenants on
Human Rights, 79/

77/ Resolution 217 A (III).

78/ Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

79/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 59

Recalling the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the United Nations, 80/

Taking into account that acts of terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations aimed at the destruction of human rights have continued despite
national and international efforts,

Bearing in mind that the most essential and basic human right is the right
to life,

Bearing in mind also that terrorism creates an environment that destroys
the freedom from fear of the people,

Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, 81/

Recalling also its resolutions 48/122 of 20 December 1993 and 49/185 of
23 December 1994,

Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/43 of
3 March 1995, 82/

Reiterating that all States have an obligation to promote and protect human
rights and fundamental freedoms, and also that every individual should strive to
secure their universal and effective recognition and observance,

Seriously concerned at the gross violations of human rights perpetrated by
terrorist groups,

Profoundly deploring the increasing number of innocent persons, including
women, children and the elderly, killed, massacred and maimed by terrorists in
indiscriminate and random acts of violence and terror, which cannot be justified
under any circumstances,

Noting with great concern the growing connection between the terrorist
groups and other criminal organizations engaged in the illegal traffic in arms
and drugs at the national and international levels, as well as the consequent
commission of serious crimes such as murder, extortion, kidnapping, assault,
taking of hostages and robbery,

Mindful of the need to protect human rights of and guarantees for the
individual in accordance with the relevant international human rights principles
and instruments, particularly the right to life,

80/ Resolution 50/6 of 24 October 1995.

81/ Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III.

82/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 60

Reaffirming that all measures to counter terrorism must be in strict
conformity with international human rights standards,

1. Expresses its solidarity with the victims of terrorism;

2. Reiterates its unequivocal condemnation of the acts, methods and
practices of terrorism as activities aimed at the destruction of human rights,
fundamental freedoms and democracy, threatening the territorial integrity and
security of States, destabilizing legitimately constituted Governments,
undermining pluralistic civil society and having adverse consequences on the
economic and social development of States;

3. Calls upon States to take all necessary and effective measures in
accordance with international standards of human rights to prevent, combat and
eliminate all acts of terrorism wherever and by whomever committed;

4. Urges the international community to enhance cooperation at regional
and international levels in the fight against terrorism in accordance with
relevant international instruments, including those relating to human rights,
with the aim of its eradication;

5. Condemns incitement of ethnic hatred, violence and terrorism;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to seek the views of Member
States on the possible establishment of a United Nations voluntary fund for
victims of terrorism, as well as ways and means to rehabilitate the victims of
terrorism and to reintegrate them into society, and to submit to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session, for its consideration, a report containing
comments made by Member States on the subject;

7. Also requests the Secretary-General to transmit the text of the
present resolution to all Member States and to competent specialized agencies
and intergovernmental organizations for their consideration;

8. Encourages special rapporteurs, special representatives and working
groups of the Commission on Human Rights, as well as treaty bodies, to pay
appropriate attention, within their mandates, to the consequences of the acts,
methods and practices of terrorist groups;

9. Decides to consider this question at its fifty-second session under
the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVI

Strengthening of the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 44/135 of 15 December 1989, 45/180 of
21 December 1990, 46/111 and 46/118 of 17 December 1991, 47/127 of

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 61

18 December 1992, 48/129 of 20 December 1993, 48/141 of 20 December 1993 and
49/195 of 23 December 1994, and bearing in mind all relevant resolutions of the
Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights,

Considering that the promotion of universal respect for and observance of
human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the basic purposes of the United
Nations enshrined in its Charter and a priority activity of the Organization,

Taking into account that in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,
the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,
concerned by the growing disparity between the activities of the Centre for
Human Rights of the Secretariat and the human, financial and other resources
available to carry them out, and bearing in mind the resources needed for other
important United Nations programmes, requested the Secretary-General and the
General Assembly to take immediate steps to increase substantially the resources
for the human rights programme, from within the existing and future regular
budgets of the United Nations, and to take urgent steps to seek increased
extrabudgetary resources, 83/

Noting that in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the World
Conference on Human Rights stressed the importance of strengthening the
Centre, 84/

Taking into account the establishment of the post of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the mandate for the post,
including its coordinating role and its overall supervision of the Centre, as
well as the request by the General Assembly in resolution 48/141 for appropriate
staff and resources to enable the High Commissioner to fulfil his mandate,

Noting with concern that the response to these requests has not been
commensurate with the needs, resulting in a serious imbalance between the
mandates assigned to the High Commissioner and the Centre by the competent
bodies of the United Nations system in the field of human rights and the
resources available to fulfil all of these mandates,

Taking into account that, in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action, the World Conference on Human Rights urged all United Nations organs,
bodies and the specialized agencies whose activities deal with human rights to
cooperate in order to strengthen, rationalize and streamline their activities,
taking into account the need to avoid unnecessary duplication,

Noting that the High Commissioner and the Centre are a unity whereby the
High Commissioner, in accordance with resolution 48/141, sets the policy
directions and the priority of action and the Centre implements those policies
under the direction of the head of the Centre, the Assistant Secretary-General
for Human Rights,

83/ See Report of the World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna,
14-25 June 1993 (A/CONF.157/24 (Part I)), chap. III, sect. II, para. 9.

84/ Ibid., para. 13.

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 62

Taking into account the fact that the responsibilities of the High
Commissioner include, inter alia, engaging in a dialogue with all Governments in
the implementation of his mandate with a view to the promotion and protection of
all human rights, and rationalizing, adapting, strengthening and streamlining
the United Nations machinery in the field of human rights with a view to
improving its efficiency and effectiveness,

Acknowledging that, while further improvement in the function and
efficiency of the Centre, together with a strong emphasis on good management
practices, is needed in order to enable the Centre to cope with its constantly
increasing workload, good management practices need to be complemented by
additional resources commensurate with additional mandates,

Taking note of the information provided by the High Commissioner with
regard to the ongoing process aimed at increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Centre, and recalling, in this context, the request of the
Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 1995/93 of 10 March 1995 85/ to
the Secretary-General to convene, at least twice a year at Geneva, meetings with
all interested States to provide information on the activities conducted by the
Centre and its process of restructuring,

Recognizing that this process should contribute to the strengthening of the
functional framework for integrated and consolidated activities of the
Secretariat in the field of human rights,

Recalling that in its report to the Special Commission of the Economic and
Social Council, 86/ the Commission on Human Rights reaffirmed that the
paramount consideration in the employment of staff at every level was the need
for the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity, and that it
was convinced that that was compatible with the principle of equitable
geographical distribution, and bearing in mind Article 101, paragraph 3, of the
Charter of the United Nations,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the strengthening of
the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat 87/ and the note by the
Secretary-General on the geographical composition and functions of the staff of
the Centre, 88/ as well as the report of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights, 89/

85/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

86/ E/CN.4/1988/85 and Corr.1.

87/ A/50/678.

88/ A/50/682.

89/ A/50/36 (to be issued in final form as Official Records of the General
Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement No. 36).

/...



A/50/635/Add.2
English
Page 63

1. Supports and encourages the efforts of the Secretary-General to
enhance the role and further improve the functioning of the Centre for Human
Rights of the Secretariat, under the overall supervision of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights;

2. Reiterates the need to ensure that all the necessary human, financial,
material and personnel resources are provided without delay to the High
Commissioner and the Centre to enable them to carry out efficiently, effectively
and expeditiously the mandates assigned to them;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to make available additional human and
financial resources, within the overall regular budget of the United Nations, to
enhance the capability of the High Commissioner and of the Centre to fulfil
effectively their respective mandates and their ability to carry out mandated
operational activities and to coordinate efficiently with other relevant
departments of the Secretariat, as well as other organs, bodies and specialized
agencies of the United Nations system including on logistical and administrative
questions having due regard to the need to finance and implement activities of
the United Nations related to development;

4. Supports fully the High Commissioner in his efforts to strengthen the
human rights activities of the United Nations, inter alia, through measures
aimed at restructuring the Centre to improve its efficiency and effectiveness;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit an interim report to the
Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-second session and a final report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the strengthening of the human
rights programme and on the measures taken to implement the present resolution.

-----


