





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/642
5 December 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 145

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE CHARTER OF THE
UNITED NATIONS AND ON THE STRENGTHENING OF THE ROLE OF

THE ORGANIZATION

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Walid OBEIDAT (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization" was
included in the provisional agenda of the fiftieth session of the General
Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Assembly resolution 49/58 of
9 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connection with the item, the Sixth Committee had before it the report
of the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the
Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, 1/ which was introduced by the
Chairman of the Special Committee at the 31st meeting of the Sixth Committee, on
6 November 1995. The Special Committee, in its report on its 1995 session,
inter alia:

(a) Recommended that the General Assembly bring to the attention of States
the text of the United Nations Model Rules for the Conciliation of Disputes

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement
No. 33 (A/50/33).

95-38270 (E) 071295 /...



A/50/642
English
Page 2

between States completed during that session, by annexing it to a decision or
resolution to be adopted at the fiftieth session;

(b) Invited the General Assembly to consider the establishment of an open-
ended working group within the framework of the Sixth Committee, at the fiftieth
session, with a view to considering, on the basis of the report of the
Secretary-General prepared pursuant to paragraph 3 of General Assembly
resolution 49/58, the issue of the implementation of the provisions of the
Charter of the United Nations related to assistance to third States affected by
the application of sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter.

4. The following communications were also circulated under the item:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations related to assistance to third
States affected by the application of sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter
(A/50/361);

(b) Letter dated 1 September 1995 from the Permanent Representative of
Sierra Leone to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/50/403).

5. At its 2nd meeting, on 25 September 1995, the Sixth Committee established
the Working Group referred to in paragraph 3 (b) above and elected
Ms. Maria del Luján Flores (Uruguay) as its Chairman. The Working Group held 19
meetings between 3 October and 24 November 1995.

6. At the 46th meeting of the Sixth Committee, on 29 November, the Chairman of
the Working Group presented an oral report on the work of the Working Group (see
A/C.6/50/SR.46).

7. The Sixth Committee considered the item at its 31st to 37th, 44th and 46th
meetings, from 6 to 13 and on 22 and 29 November 1995. The summary records of
those meetings contain the views of the representatives who spoke during the
Committee’s consideration of the item (A/C.6/50/SR.31-37, 44 and 46).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutions A/C.6/50/L.11 and A/C.6/50/L.11/Rev.1

8. The Sixth Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled "United
Nations Model Rules for the Conciliation of Disputes between States"
(A/C.6/50/L.11) sponsored by Guatemala, subsequently joined by Argentina, Costa
Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Kyrgyzstan, Nicaragua and Panama.

9. At the 46th meeting, on 29 November 1995, the representative of Guatemala,
on behalf of Argentina, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Kyrgyzstan, Nicaragua, Panama and Spain, subsequently joined by Canada
and Venezuela, introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.6/50/L.11/Rev.1)
entitled "United Nations Model Rules for the Conciliation of Disputes between
States", in which operative paragraph 1, which had read:

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 3

"1. Commends the Special Committee on the Charter of the United
Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization for having
adopted by consensus the final text of the United Nations Model Rules for
the Conciliation of Disputes between States", 2/

was replaced by the following:

"1. Commends the Special Committee on the Charter of the United
Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization for having
completed the final text of the United Nations Model Rules for the
Conciliation of Disputes between States". 2/

10. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.6/50/L.11/Rev.1 by consensus (see para. 18, draft resolution I).

11. A statement was made by the representative of Peru (see A/C.6/50/SR.46).

B. Draft resolution A/C.6/50/L.13

12. At the 46th meeting, on 29 November, the Chairman of the Working Group on
the Implementation of Charter Provisions related to Assistance to Third States
Affected by the Application of Sanctions introduced a draft resolution
(A/C.6/50/L.13), entitled "Implementation of Charter provisions related to
assistance to third States affected by the application of sanctions", proposed
by her.

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.6/50/L.13
by consensus (see para. 18, draft resolution II).

14. Statements were made by the representatives of France and Mozambique (see
A/C.6/50/SR.46).

C. Draft resolution A/C.6/50/L.15

15. At the 46th meeting, on 29 November 1995, the representative of Egypt, on
behalf of Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Egypt, New Zealand and the Philippines,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.6/50/L.15) entitled "Report of the Special
Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the
Role of the Organization". Subsequently, Finland, Japan and Portugal joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

2/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement
No. 33 (A/50/33), chap. V, sect. A.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 4

16. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.6/50/L.15
by a recorded vote of 122 to none, with 6 abstentions (see para. 18, draft
resolution III). The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa,
Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Sri Lanka, Sudan.

17. Statements were made by the representatives of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Mexico, Italy, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Cuba, France and
Japan (see A/C.6/50/SR.46).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

18. The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

3/ The Secretariat was subsequently notified that the delegation of Sri
Lanka had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution and that the
delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic, had it been present during the vote,
would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 5

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

United Nations Model Rules for the Conciliation of
Disputes between States

The General Assembly,

Considering that conciliation is among the methods for the settlement of
disputes between States enumerated by the Charter of the United Nations in
Article 33, paragraph 1, that it has been provided for in numerous treaties,
bilateral as well as multilateral, for the settlement of such disputes, and that
it has proved its usefulness in practice,

Convinced that the establishment of model rules for the conciliation of
disputes between States which incorporate the results of the most recent
scholarly work and of experience in the field of international conciliation, as
well as a number of innovations which can with advantage be made in the
traditional practice in that area, can contribute to the development of
harmonious relations between States,

1. Commends the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations
and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization for having completed
the final text of the United Nations Model Rules for the Conciliation of
Disputes between States; 4/

2. Draws to the attention of States the possibility of applying the Model
Rules, the text of which is annexed hereto, whenever a dispute has arisen
between States which it has not been possible to solve through direct
negotiations;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, to the extent possible and in
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Model Rules, to lend his
assistance to the States resorting to conciliation on the basis of those Rules;

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements
to distribute to Governments the text of the present resolution, including the
annex.

4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement
No. 33 (A/50/33), chap. V, sect. A.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 6

ANNEX

United Nations Model Rules for the Conciliation
of Disputes between States

CHAPTER I

APPLICATION OF THE RULES

Article 1

1. These rules apply to the conciliation of disputes between States where
those States have expressly agreed in writing to their application.

2. The States which agree to apply these rules may at any time, through mutual
agreement, exclude or amend any of their provisions.

CHAPTER II

INITIATION OF THE CONCILIATION PROCEEDINGS

Article 2

1. The conciliation proceedings shall begin as soon as the States concerned
(henceforth: the parties) have agreed in writing to the application of the
present rules, with or without amendments, as well as on a definition of the
subject of the dispute, the number and emoluments of members of the conciliation
commission, its seat and the maximum duration of the proceedings, as provided in
article 24. If necessary, the agreement shall contain provisions concerning the
language or languages in which the proceedings are to be conducted and the
linguistic services required.

2. If the States cannot reach agreement on the definition of the subject of
the dispute, they may by mutual agreement request the assistance of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations to resolve the difficulty. They may
also by mutual agreement request his assistance to resolve any other difficulty
that they may encounter in reaching an agreement on the modalities of the
conciliation proceedings.

CHAPTER III

NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT OF CONCILIATORS

Article 3

There may be three conciliators or five conciliators. In either case the
conciliators shall form a commission.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 7

Article 4

If the parties have agreed that three conciliators shall be appointed, each
one of them shall appoint a conciliator, who may not be of its own nationality.
The parties shall appoint by mutual agreement the third conciliator, who may not
be of the nationality of any of the parties or of the other conciliators. The
third conciliator shall act as president of the commission. If he is not
appointed within two months of the appointment of the conciliators appointed
individually by the parties, the third conciliator shall be appointed by the
Government of a third State chosen by agreement between the parties or, if such
agreement is not obtained within two months, by the President of the
International Court of Justice. If the President is a national of one of the
parties, the appointment shall be made by the Vice-President or the next member
of the Court in order of seniority who is not a national of the parties. The
third conciliator shall not reside habitually in the territory of the parties or
be or have been in their service.

Article 5

1. If the parties have agreed that five conciliators should be appointed, each
one of them shall appoint a conciliator who may be of its own nationality. The
other three conciliators, one of whom shall be chosen with a view to his acting
as president, shall be appointed by agreement between the parties from among
nationals of third States and shall be of different nationalities. None of them
shall reside habitually in the territory of the parties or be or have been in
their service. None of them shall have the same nationality as that of the
other two conciliators.

2. If the appointment of the conciliators whom the parties are to appoint
jointly has not been effected within three months, they shall be appointed by
the Government of a third State chosen by agreement between the parties or, if
such an agreement is not reached within three months, by the President of the
International Court of Justice. If the President is a national of one of the
parties, the appointment shall be made by the Vice-President or the next judge
in order of seniority who is not a national of the parties. The Government or
member of the International Court of Justice making the appointment shall also
decide which of the three conciliators shall act as president.

3. If, at the end of the three-month period referred to in the preceding
paragraph, the parties have been able to appoint only one or two conciliators,
the two conciliators or the conciliator still required shall be appointed in the
manner described in the preceding paragraph. If the parties have not agreed
that the conciliator or one of the two conciliators whom they have appointed
shall act as president, the Government or member of the International Court of
Justice appointing the two conciliators or the conciliator still required shall
also decide which of the three conciliators shall act as president.

4. If, at the end of the three-month period referred to in paragraph 2 of this
article, the parties have appointed three conciliators but have not been able to
agree which of them shall act as president, the president shall be chosen in the
manner described in that paragraph.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 8

Article 6

Vacancies which may occur in the commission as a result of death,
resignation or any other cause shall be filled as soon as possible by the method
established for appointing the members to be replaced.

CHAPTER IV

FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES

Article 7

The commission, acting independently and impartially, shall endeavour to
assist the parties in reaching an amicable settlement of the dispute. If no
settlement is reached during the consideration of the dispute, the commission
may draw up and submit appropriate recommendations to the parties for
consideration.

CHAPTER V

PROCEDURES AND POWERS OF THE COMMISSION

Article 8

The commission shall adopt its own procedure.

Article 9

1. Before the commission begins its work, the parties shall designate their
agents and shall communicate the names of such agents to the president of the
commission. The president shall determine, in agreement with the parties, the
date of the commission’s first meeting, to which the members of the commission
and the agents shall be invited.

2. The agents of the parties may be assisted before the commission by counsel
and experts appointed by the parties.

3. Before the first meeting of the commission, its members may meet informally
with the agents of the parties, if necessary, accompanied by the appointed
counsel and experts to deal with administrative and procedural matters.

Article 10

1. At its first meeting, the commission shall appoint a secretary.

2. The secretary of the commission shall not have the nationality of any of
the parties, shall not reside habitually in their territory and shall not be or
have been in the service of any of them. He may be a United Nations official if

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 9

the parties agree with the Secretary-General on the conditions under which the
official will exercise these functions.

Article 11

1. As soon as the information provided by the parties so permits, the
commission, having regard, in particular, to the time-limit laid down in
article 24, shall decide in consultation with the parties whether the parties
should be invited to submit written pleadings and, if so, in what order and
within what time-limits, as well as the dates when, if necessary, the agents and
counsel will be heard. The decisions taken by the commission in this regard may
be amended at any later stage of the proceedings.

2. Subject to the provisions of article 20, paragraph 1, the commission shall
not allow the agent or counsel of one party to attend a meeting without having
also given the other party the opportunity to be represented at the same
meeting.

Article 12

The parties, acting in good faith, shall facilitate the commission’s work
and, in particular, shall provide it to the greatest possible extent with
whatever documents, information and explanations may be relevant.

Article 13

1. The commission may ask the parties for whatever relevant information or
documents, as well as explanations, it deems necessary or useful. It may also
make comments on the arguments advanced as well as the statements or proposals
made by the parties.

2. The commission may accede to any request by a party that persons whose
testimony it considers necessary or useful be heard, or that experts be
consulted.

Article 14

In cases where the parties disagree on issues of fact, the commission may
use all means at its disposal, such as the joint expert advisers mentioned in
article 15, or consultation with experts, to ascertain the facts.

Article 15

The commission may propose to the parties that they jointly appoint expert
advisers to assist it in the consideration of technical aspects of the dispute.
If the proposal is accepted, its implementation shall be conditional upon the

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 10

expert advisers being appointed by the parties by mutual agreement and accepted
by the commission and upon the parties fixing their emoluments.

Article 16

Each party may at any time, at its own initiative or at the initiative of
the commission, make proposals for the settlement of the dispute. Any proposal
made in accordance with this article shall be communicated immediately to the
other party by the president, who may, in so doing, transmit any comment the
commission may wish to make thereon.

Article 17

At any stage of the proceedings, the commission may, at its own initiative
or at the initiative of one of the parties, draw the attention of the parties to
any measures which in its opinion might be advisable or facilitate a settlement.

Article 18

The commission shall endeavour to take its decisions unanimously but, if
unanimity proves impossible, it may take them by a majority of votes of its
members. Abstentions are not allowed. Except in matters of procedure, the
presence of all members shall be required in order for a decision to be valid.

Article 19

The commission may, at any time, ask the Secretary-General of the United
Nations for advice or assistance with regard to the administrative or procedural
aspects of its work.

CHAPTER VI

CONCLUSION OF THE CONCILIATION PROCEEDINGS

Article 20

1. On concluding its consideration of the dispute, the commission may, if full
settlement has not been reached, draw up and submit appropriate recommendations
to the parties for consideration. To that end, it may hold an exchange of views
with the agents of the parties, who may be heard jointly or separately.

2. The recommendations adopted by the commission shall be set forth in a
report communicated by the president of the commission to the agents of the
parties, with a request that the agents inform the commission, within a given
period, whether the parties accept them. The president may include in the
report the reasons which, in the commission’s view, might prompt the parties to
accept the recommendations submitted. The commission shall refrain from

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 11

presenting in its report any final conclusions with regard to facts or from
ruling formally on issues of law, unless the parties have jointly asked it to do
so.

3. If the parties accept the recommendations submitted by the commission, a
procès-verbal shall be drawn up setting forth the conditions of acceptance. The
procès-verbal shall be signed by the president and the secretary. A copy
thereof signed by the secretary shall be provided to each party. This shall
conclude the proceedings.

4. Should the commission decide not to submit recommendations to the parties,
its decision to that effect shall be recorded in a procès-verbal signed by the
president and the secretary. A copy thereof signed by the secretary shall be
provided to each party. This shall conclude the proceedings.

Article 21

1. The recommendations of the commission will be submitted to the parties for
consideration in order to facilitate an amicable settlement of the dispute. The
parties undertake to study them in good faith, carefully and objectively.

2. If one of the parties does not accept the recommendations and the other
party does, it shall inform the latter, in writing, of the reasons why it could
not accept them.

Article 22

1. If the recommendations are not accepted by both parties but the latter wish
efforts to continue in order to reach agreement on different terms, the
proceedings shall be resumed. Article 24 shall apply to the resumed
proceedings, with the relevant time-limit, which the parties may, by mutual
agreement, shorten or extend, running from the commission’s first meeting after
resumption of the proceedings.

2. If the recommendations are not accepted by both parties and the latter do
not wish further efforts to be made to reach agreement on different terms, a
procès-verbal signed by the president and the secretary of the commission shall
be drawn up, omitting the proposed terms and indicating that the parties were
unable to accept them and do not wish further efforts to be made to reach
agreement on different terms. The proceedings shall be concluded when each
party has received a copy of the procès-verbal signed by the secretary.

Article 23

Upon conclusion of the proceedings, the president of the commission shall,
with the prior agreement of the parties, deliver the documents in the possession
of the secretariat of the commission either to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations or to another person or entity agreed upon by the parties.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 12

Without prejudice to the possible application of article 26, paragraph 2, the
confidentiality of the documents shall be preserved.

Article 24

The commission shall conclude its work within the period agreed upon by the
parties. Any extension of this period shall be agreed upon by the parties.

CHAPTER VII

CONFIDENTIALITY OF THE COMMISSION’S WORK AND DOCUMENTS

Article 25

1. The commission’s meetings shall be closed. The parties and the members and
expert advisers of the commission, the agents and counsel of the parties, and
the secretary and the secretariat staff, shall maintain strictly the
confidentiality of any documents or statements, or any communication concerning
the progress of the proceedings unless their disclosure has been approved by
both parties in advance.

2. Each party shall receive, through the secretary, certified copies of any
minutes of the meetings at which it was represented.

3. Each party shall receive, through the secretary, certified copies of any
documentary evidence received and of experts’ reports, records of investigations
and statements by witnesses.

Article 26

1. Except with regard to certified copies referred to in article 25,
paragraph 3, the obligation to respect the confidentiality of the proceedings
and of the deliberations shall remain in effect for the parties and for members
of the commission, expert advisers and secretariat staff after the proceedings
are concluded and shall extend to recommendations and proposals which have not
been accepted.

2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties may, upon conclusion of the
proceedings and by mutual agreement, make available to the public all or some of
the documents that in accordance with the preceding paragraph are to remain
confidential, or authorize the publication of all or some of those documents.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 13

CHAPTER VIII

OBLIGATION NOT TO ACT IN A MANNER WHICH MIGHT HAVE
AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE CONCILIATION

Article 27

The parties shall refrain during the conciliation proceedings from any
measure which might aggravate or widen the dispute. They shall, in particular,
refrain from any measures which might have an adverse effect on the
recommendations submitted by the commission, so long as those recommendations
have not been explicitly rejected by either of the parties.

CHAPTER IX

PRESERVATION OF THE LEGAL POSITION OF THE PARTIES

Article 28

1. Except as the parties may otherwise agree, neither party shall be entitled
in any other proceedings, whether in a court of law or before arbitrators or
before any other body, entity or person, to invoke any views expressed or
statements, admissions or proposals made by the other party in the conciliation
proceedings, but not accepted, or the report of the commission, the
recommendations submitted by the commission or any proposal made by the
commission, unless agreed to by both parties.

2. Acceptance by a party of recommendations submitted by the commission in no
way implies any admission by it of the considerations of law or of fact which
may have inspired the recommendations.

CHAPTER X

COSTS

Article 29

The costs of the conciliation proceedings and the emoluments of expert
advisers appointed in accordance with article 15, shall be borne by the parties
in equal shares.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 14

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Implementation of Charter provisions related to assistance
to third States affected by the application of sanctions

The General Assembly,

Concerned with the special economic problems confronting certain States
arising from the carrying out of preventive or enforcement measures taken by the
Security Council against other States, and taking into account the obligation of
Members of the United Nations under Article 49 of the Charter of the United
Nations to join in affording mutual assistance in carrying out the measures
decided upon by the Security Council,

Recalling the right of third States confronted with special economic
problems of that nature to consult the Security Council with regard to a
solution to those problems, in accordance with Article 50 of the Charter,

Recalling also the 1994 5/ and 1995 6/ reports of the Special Committee
on the Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the
Organization containing sections on the consideration by the Committee of the
proposals presented on the question of the implementation of the provisions of
the Charter of the United Nations related to assistance to third States affected
by the application of sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter,

Recalling further:

(a) The report of the Secretary-General, entitled "An Agenda for
Peace", 7/ in particular paragraph 41 thereof;

(b) Its resolutions 47/120 A of 18 December 1992, entitled "An Agenda for
Peace: preventive diplomacy and related matters", and 47/120 B of
20 September 1993, entitled "An Agenda for Peace", in particular section IV
thereof, entitled "Special economic problems arising from the implementation of
preventive or enforcement measures";

(c) The position paper of the Secretary-General, entitled "Supplement to
An Agenda for Peace"; 8/

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 33 (A/49/33).

6/ Ibid., Fiftieth Session, Supplement No. 33 (A/50/33).

7/ A/47/277-S/24111.

8/ A/50/60-S/1995/1.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 15

(d) The statement of the President of the Security Council of
22 February 1995; 9/

(e) The report of the Secretary-General prepared pursuant to the note by
the President of the Security Council 10/ regarding the question of special
economic problems of States as a result of sanctions imposed under Chapter VII
of the Charter of the United Nations; 11/

(f) The reports of the Secretary-General on "Economic assistance to States
affected by the implementation of the Security Council resolutions imposing
sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro)", 12/

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
the provisions of the Charter related to assistance to third States affected by
the application of sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter, 13/

Recalling that the question of assistance to third States affected by the
application of sanctions has been addressed recently in several forums,
including the General Assembly and its subsidiary organs and the Security
Council,

Recalling also the Security Council’s intention expressed in the statement
of the President of the Security Council of 16 December 1994 14/ as part of
the Council’s effort to improve the flow of information and the exchange of
ideas between members of the Council and other States Members of the United
Nations that there should be increased recourse to open meetings, in particular
at an early stage in its consideration of a subject,

Stressing that in the formulation of sanctions regimes, due account should
be taken of the potential effects of sanctions on third States,

Stressing also in this context the powers of the Security Council under
Chapter VII of the Charter and the Council’s principal responsibility under
Article 24 of the Charter for the maintenance of international peace and
security in order to ensure prompt and effective action by the United Nations,

Recalling that, under Article 31 of the Charter, any Member of the United
Nations which is not a member of the Security Council may participate, without

9/ S/PRST/1995/9.

10/ S/25036.

11/ A/48/573-S/26705.

12/ A/49/356 and A/50/423.

13/ A/50/361.

14/ S/PRST/1994/81.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 16

vote, in the discussion of any question brought before the Security Council
whenever the latter considers that the interests of that Member are specially
affected,

Recognizing that assistance to third States affected by the application of
sanctions would further contribute to an effective and comprehensive approach by
the international community to mandatory sanctions imposed by the Security
Council,

Recognizing also the importance of taking into account in international
mechanisms of cooperation and of economic and financial assistance special
economic problems of States arising from the implementation of sanctions imposed
under Chapter VII of the Charter,

1. Underlines the importance of consultations under Article 50 of the
Charter of the United Nations, as early as possible, with third States which may
be confronted with special economic problems arising from the carrying out of
preventive or enforcement measures imposed by the Security Council under
Chapter VII of the Charter and of early and regular assessments, as appropriate,
of their impact on such States, and, for this purpose, invites the Security
Council to consider appropriate ways and means for increasing the effectiveness
of its working methods and procedures applied in the consideration of the
requests by the affected countries for assistance, in the context of Article 50;

2. Welcomes the measures taken by the Security Council aimed at
increasing the effectiveness and transparency of the sanctions committees, and
strongly recommends that the Council continue its efforts further to enhance the
functioning of those committees, to streamline their working procedures and to
facilitate access to them by representatives of States which find themselves
confronted with special economic problems arising from the carrying out of
sanctions;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to ensure
that the Security Council and its sanctions committees are able to carry out
their work expeditiously, and to make appropriate arrangements in the relevant
parts of the Secretariat, in order to carry out, in a coordinated way, the
following functions:

(a) To collate, assess and analyse information, at the request of the
Security Council and its organs, on the effects of sanctions regimes in third
States which are or may be specially affected by the implementations of
sanctions and the resulting needs of such States, and keep the Security Council
and its organs informed;

(b) To provide advice to the Security Council and its organs at their
request on specific needs or problems of those third States and present possible
options so that, while maintaining the effectiveness of the sanctions regimes,
appropriate adjustments may be made to the administration of the regime or the
regime itself with a view to mitigating the adverse effects on such States;

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 17

(c) To collate and coordinate information about international assistance
available to third States affected by the implementations of sanctions and to
make it officially available to the interested member States;

(d) To explore innovative and practical measures of assistance to the
affected third States through cooperation with relevant institutions and
organizations inside and outside the United Nations system;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly, at
its fifty-first session, on the implementation of paragraph 3 and on possible
guidelines which might be adopted on technical procedures to be used by the
appropriate parts of the Secretariat:

(a) For providing better information and early assessments for the
Security Council and its organs about the actual or potential effects of
sanctions on third States which invoke Article 50 of the Charter;

(b) For developing a possible methodology for assessing the consequences
actually incurred by third States as a result of the implementation of
preventive or enforcement measures;

(c) For coordination of information about international economic or other
assistance potentially available to those third States;

5. Stresses the important role of the General Assembly, the Economic and
Social Council and the Committee for Programme and Coordination in mobilizing
and monitoring, as appropriate, the economic assistance efforts by the
international community and the United Nations system to States confronted with
special economic problems arising from the carrying out of preventive or
enforcement measures imposed by the Security Council;

6. Invites the organizations of the United Nations system, international
financial institutions, other international organizations, regional
organizations and States Members to continue to take into account and to address
more specifically and directly, where appropriate, special economic problems of
third States affected by sanctions imposed under Chapter VII of the Charter and,
for this purpose, to consider ways and means for improving procedures for
consultations in order to maintain a constructive dialogue with such States,
including through regular and frequent meetings as well as, where appropriate,
special meetings between the affected third States and the donor community, with
the participation of United Nations agencies and other international
organizations;

7. Requests the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations
and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, at its session
in 1996, to continue to consider on a priority basis the question of the
implementation of the provisions of the Charter related to assistance to third
States affected by the application of sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter
taking into consideration the report of the Secretary-General, 10/ the proposals
presented on this subject, the debate on this question which took place in the
Sixth Committee at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly and, in
particular, the implementation of the provisions of the present resolution.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 18

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of
the United Nations and on the Strengthening of

the Role of the Organization

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3499 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, by which it
established the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on
the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, and its relevant resolutions
adopted at subsequent sessions,

Recalling also its resolution 47/233 of 17 August 1993 on the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly,

Recalling further its resolution 47/62 of 11 December 1992 on the question
of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security
Council,

Bearing in mind the provisions of its resolution 50/__ [draft resolution
A/C.6/50/L.6/Rev.1] of __________,

Conscious of the ongoing discussion in the open-ended working groups of the
General Assembly dealing with the various aspects of the revitalization,
strengthening and reform of the work of the United Nations,

Welcoming the report of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of
Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security
Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council, 15/

Bearing in mind the reports of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization submitted to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh, 16/
thirty-ninth, 17/ fortieth, 18/ forty-first, 19/ forty-second, 20/

15/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 47 (A/49/47).

16/ Ibid., Thirty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/37/1).

17/ Ibid., Thirty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/39/1).

18/ Ibid., Fortieth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/40/1).

19/ Ibid., Forty-first Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/41/1).

20/ Ibid., Forty-second Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/42/1).

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 19

forty-third, 21/ forty-fourth, 22/ forty-fifth, 23/ forty-sixth, 24/
forty-seventh, 25/ forty-eighth, 26/ forty-ninth 27/ and
fiftieth 28/ sessions, as well as the views and comments expressed on them by
Member States,

Recalling the elements relevant to the work of the Special Committee
contained in its resolution 47/120 B of 20 September 1993,

Mindful of the desirability for the Special Committee to carry out further
work in the fields of the maintenance of international peace and security and
the peaceful settlement of disputes between States,

Recalling its resolution 49/58 of 9 December 1994,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee on the work of its
session held in 1995, 29/

Taking note of the recommendation of the Special Committee on the most
appropriate legal action to be taken on the question of the deletion of the
"enemy State" clauses from Articles 53, 77 and 107 of the Charter of the United
Nations, 30/

Recognizing that, having regard to the substantial changes that have taken
place in the world, the "enemy State" clauses in Articles 53, 77 and 107 of the
Charter of the United Nations have become obsolete,

Noting that the States to which those clauses were directed are Members of
the United Nations and represent a valuable asset in all the endeavours of the
Organization,

Taking into account the complex process involved in amending the Charter,

21/ Ibid., Forty-third Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/43/1).

22/ Ibid., Forty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/44/1).

23/ Ibid., Forty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/45/1).

24/ Ibid., Forty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/46/1).

25/ Ibid., Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/47/1).

26/ Ibid., Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/48/1).

27/ Ibid., Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/49/1).

28/ Ibid., Fiftieth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/50/1).

29/ Ibid., Supplement No. 33 (A/50/33).

30/ Ibid., para. 65.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 20

1. Takes note of the report of the Special Committee on the Charter of
the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization; 29/

2. Decides that the Special Committee will hold its next session from
21 February to 5 March 1996;

3. Expresses its intention to initiate the procedure set out in
Article 108 of the Charter of the United Nations to amend the Charter, with
prospective effect, by the deletion of the "enemy State" clauses from
Articles 53, 77 and 107 at its earliest appropriate future session;

4. Requests the Special Committee, at its session in 1996, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 5 below:

(a) To accord appropriate time for the consideration of all proposals
concerning the question of the maintenance of international peace and security
in all its aspects in order to strengthen the role of the United Nations and, in
this context, to consider other proposals relating to the maintenance of
international peace and security already submitted or which might be submitted
to the Special Committee at its session in 1996, including the proposal on the
strengthening of the role of the Organization and enhancing its effectiveness
and the revised proposal submitted with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of
the Security Council in regard to the maintenance of international peace and
security, and to consider recommending to the General Assembly the desired
priorities for its further consideration;

(b) To continue to consider on a priority basis the question of the
implementation of the provisions of the Charter related to assistance to third
States affected by the application of sanctions under Chapter VII of the
Charter, taking into consideration the report of the Secretary-General, 31/
the proposals presented on this subject, the debate on this question which took
place in the Sixth Committee at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly
and, in particular, the implementation of the provisions of General Assembly
resolution 50/__ [draft resolution A/C.6/50/L.13] of ________;

(c) To continue its work on the question of the peaceful settlement of
disputes between States, and in this context to continue its consideration of
proposals relating to the peaceful settlement of disputes between States,
including the proposal on the establishment of a dispute settlement service
offering or responding with its services early in disputes and those proposals
relating to the enhancement of the role of the International Court of Justice;

(d) To continue its consideration of the question of the enhancement of
cooperation between the United Nations and regional arrangements or agencies in
the maintenance of international peace and security;

(e) To consider proposals concerning the Trusteeship Council;

31/ A/50/361.

/...



A/50/642
English
Page 21

(f) To consider the status of the Repertory of Practice of United Nations
Organs and the Repertoire of the Practice of the Security Council; 32/

5. Decides that the Special Committee shall henceforth be open to all
States Members of the United Nations and that it will continue to operate on the
basis of the practice of consensus;

6. Decides also that the Special Committee shall be authorized to accept
the participation of observers of States other than States Members of the United
Nations which are members of specialized agencies or of the International Atomic
Energy Agency in its meetings, and further decides to invite intergovernmental
organizations to participate in the debate in the plenary meetings of the
Committee on specific items where it considers that such participation would
assist in the work;

7. Invites the Special Committee at its session in 1996 to identify new
subjects for consideration in its future work with a view to contributing to the
revitalization of the work of the United Nations, and to discuss how to offer
its assistance to the working groups of the General Assembly in this field;

8. Requests the Special Committee to submit a report on its work to the
General Assembly at the fifty-first session;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization".

-----

32/ See A/C.6/50/SR.44.


