





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/50/L.70
24 April 1996

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 44

THE SITUATION IN THE MIDDLE EAST

Algeria, Bahrain, Cambodia, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab

Emirates and Yemen: draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Having heard the statement of the President of the Lebanese Republic before
the plenary on 23 April 1996, 1/

Taking note of the letters from the Deputy Permanent Representative of
Colombia in his capacity as Chairman of the Coordinating Bureau of the Movement
of Non-Aligned Countries 2/ and from the Permanent Representative of Guinea to
the United Nations in her capacity as Chairperson of the Islamic Group and on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference, 3/

Recalling the relevant Security Council resolutions on the situation in
Lebanon, in particular resolution 425 (1978) of 19 March 1978,

Bearing in mind the debate which took place at its 113th to th meetings
on 23, 24 and 25 April 1996, on the situation in the Middle East,

1/ See A/50/PV.113.

2/ A/50/940.

3/ A/50/941.

96-10433 (E) 240496 /...



A/50/L.70
English
Page 2

Gravely concerned at the consequences which the ongoing fighting could have
for the peace and security of the region and for the furtherance of the peace
process in the Middle East, and affirming its full support for that process and
for the need to achieve real progress, especially on the Lebanese and Syrian
track,

Gravely concerned also at all attacks on civilian targets, including
residential areas and at the loss of life and suffering among civilians,

Stressing the need for all concerned to respect fully the rules of
international humanitarian law with regard to the protection of civilians, in
particular the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949,

Gravely concerned further at actions which seriously threaten the safety of
the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and impede the implementation of its
mandate, in particular the incident which occurred on 18 April 1996 in which
shelling resulted in heavy loss of lives among civilians at a site of the
Interim Force,

Taking into consideration the statement of the International Committee of
the Red Cross of 19 April 1996, in which it firmly condemned the shelling of
civilians who had taken refuge in an Interim Force base in the village of Qana,

Expressing concern at the bombardment of the archaeological and cultural
sites and monuments in the city of Tyre which are internationally protected, in
accordance with international law and the 1954 Hague Convention for the
Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, 4/ and which
are considered by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to be the heritage of all mankind,

1. Calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities;

2. Supports the ongoing diplomatic efforts to this end;

3. Condemns the Israeli military attacks against the civilian population
in Lebanon, especially against the United Nations base at Qana, which violate
the rules of international humanitarian law pertaining to the protection of
civilians, and expresses its grave concern and sorrow over the loss of lives and
serious injuries to innocent men, women and children;

4. Calls upon Israel immediately to cease its military action against the
territorial integrity of Lebanon and to withdraw forthwith its forces from all
Lebanese territory, in conformity with Security Council resolution 425 (1978);

5. Calls for strict respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty
and political independence of Lebanon within its internationally recognized
boundaries;

4/ United Nations, Treaty Series, No. 3511.

/...



A/50/L.70
English
Page 3

6. Calls upon all concerned to respect the safety and security of
civilians in conformity with the rules of international humanitarian law;

7. Considers that Lebanon is entitled to appropriate redress for the
destruction it has suffered and that Israel is responsible for such
compensation;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to dispatch a special technical mission
to the area to study and prepare, within one month’s time, in cooperation with
the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, a report on the human and material
losses and damage resulting from the recent and ongoing hostilities;

9. Calls upon Member States to offer humanitarian assistance to alleviate
the suffering of the population and to assist the Government of Lebanon in the
reconstruction of the country, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure that
the United Nations and its agencies play their part in meeting the humanitarian
needs of the civilian population;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly on
the progress made in the implementation of the present resolution.

-----


