


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/606
1 December 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 85

         REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISRAELI PRACTICES
         AFFECTING THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AND OTHER

ARABS OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Allan BREIER-CASTRO (Venezuela)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fiftieth session the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian
People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories" and to allocate it to the
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 24th and 25th meetings, on
17 and 30 November 1995 (see A/C.4/50/SR.24 and 25).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the twenty-seventh report
of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human
Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories
(A/50/463);

(b) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the periodic report of the
Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of
the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories, covering the
period from 27 August to 31 December 1994 (A/50/170);

95-38140 (E) 021295 /...



A/50/606
English
Page 2

(c) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the periodic report of the
Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of
the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories, covering the
period from 1 January to 31 March 1995 (A/50/282);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 49/36 A (A/50/657);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 49/36 B (A/50/658);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 49/36 C (A/50/659);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 49/36 D (A/50/660);

(h) Letter dated 8 February 1995 from the Permanent Representative of
Morocco to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/50/82-
S/1995/135);

(i) Letters dated 18 and 28 April and 8 May 1995 from the Permanent
Observer of Palestine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/50/159-S/1995/312, A/50/168-S/1995/341 and A/50/176-S/1995/376);

(j) Identical letters dated 24 May 1995 from the Permanent Observer of
Palestine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General and the
President of the Security Council (A/50/191-S/1995/418).

4. At the 24th meeting, on 17 November, the representative of Sri Lanka,
Chairman of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the
Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied
Territories, introduced the reports of that Committee (A/50/170, A/50/282 and
A/50/463).

5. At the same meeting, the Permanent Observer of Palestine made a statement
(see A/C.4/50/SR.24).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.18

6. At the 25th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan,
Malaysia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.4/50/L.18).

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 3

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.18
by a recorded vote of 63 to 2, with 65 abstentions (see para. 14, draft
resolution A). 1/ The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour: Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China,
Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Philippines, Qatar, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Samoa, Slovakia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay.

B. Draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.19

8. At the 25th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan,
Malaysia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.4/50/L.19).

                        

     1/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Spain (on behalf of the European Union), the Republic of Korea,
the Russian Federation and Uruguay.

     2/ Subsequently, the delegations of Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Saudi Arabia
and Senegal informed the Committee that, had they been present at the time of
the vote, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution, and the
delegation of Andorra informed the Secretariat that it would have abstained.

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 4

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.19
by a recorded vote of 127 to 2, with 4 abstentions (see para. 14, draft
resolution B). 1/ The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People's
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nicaragua,
Russian Federation.

C. Draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.20

10. At the 25th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan,
Malaysia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.4/50/L.20).

11. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.20
by a recorded vote of 122 to 2, with 8 abstentions (see para. 14, draft
resolution C). 1/ The voting was as follows: 3/

                        

     3/ Subsequently, the delegations of Afghanistan, Andorra, Saudi Arabia
and Senegal informed the Committee that, had they been present at the time of
the vote, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 5

In favour: Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Barbados, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Nicaragua, Panama, Russian Federation, Uruguay.

D. Draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.21

12. At the 25th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Lebanon,
Malaysia, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.4/50/L.21).

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.21
by a recorded vote of 121 to 1, with 11 abstentions (see para. 14, draft
resolution D). 1/ The voting was as follows: 3/

In favour: Algeria, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China,
Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan,

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 6

Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Samoa, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic
of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel.

Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahamas, Barbados, Kenya,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nicaragua,
Russian Federation, United States of America, Uruguay.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
     DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

14. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolutions:

         Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices
         Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other

Arabs of the Occupied Territories

A

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Guided also by the principles of international humanitarian law, in
particular the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 4/ as well as international standards of
human rights, in particular the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 5/ and the
International Covenants on Human Rights, 6/

                        

     4/ United Nations Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.

     5/ Resolution 217 A (III). 

     6/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 7

Recalling its relevant resolutions, including resolution 2443 (XXIII) of
19 December 1968, and relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights,

Recalling also relevant resolutions of the Security Council,

Aware of the uprising (intifadah) of the Palestinian people,

Convinced that occupation itself represents a primary violation of human
rights,

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories 7/ and the relevant reports of the Secretary-
General, 8/

Noting the signing of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-
Government Arrangements, including its Annexes and its Agreed Minutes, by the
Government of the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization at
Washington, D.C., on 13 September 1993, 9/ as well as the subsequent
implementation agreements, including the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the
Jericho Area signed at Cairo on 4 May 1994 10/ and the Interim Agreement on the
West Bank and the Gaza Strip signed on 28 September 1995,

Expressing the hope that, with the progress of the peace process, the
Israeli occupation will be brought to an end and therefore violation of the
human rights of the Palestinian people will cease,

1. Commends the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices
Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the
Occupied Territories for its efforts in performing the tasks assigned to it by
the General Assembly and for its impartiality;

2. Demands that Israel cooperate with the Special Committee in
implementing its mandate;

3. Deplores those policies and practices of Israel which violate the
human rights of the Palestinian people and other Arabs of the occupied
territories, as reflected in the reports of the Special Committee covering the
reporting period; 7/

4. Expresses the hope that, in the light of the recent positive political
developments, those policies and practices will be brought to an end
immediately;

                        

     7/ See A/50/170, A/50/282 and A/50/463.

     8/ A/50/657 to A/50/660.

     9/ A/48/486-S/26560, annex.

     10/ A/49/180-S/1994/727, annex.

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 8

5. Requests the Special Committee, pending complete termination of the
Israeli occupation, to continue to investigate Israeli policies and practices in
the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, to consult, as appropriate, with the
International Committee of the Red Cross according to its regulations in order
to ensure that the welfare and human rights of the peoples of the occupied
territories are safeguarded and to report to the Secretary-General as soon as
possible and whenever the need arises thereafter;

6. Also requests the Special Committee to submit regularly to the
Secretary-General periodic reports on the current situation in the occupied
Palestinian territory;

7. Further requests the Special Committee to continue to investigate the
treatment of prisoners in the occupied Palestinian territory, including
Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967;

8. Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To provide all necessary facilities to the Special Committee,
including those required for its visits to the occupied territories, so that it
may investigate the Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present
resolution;

(b) To continue to make available such additional staff as may be
necessary to assist the Special Committee in the performance of its tasks;

(c) To circulate regularly to Member States the periodic reports mentioned
in paragraph 6 above;

(d) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special
Committee and of information regarding its activities and findings, by all means
available, through the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat and,
where necessary, to reprint those reports of the Special Committee that are no
longer available;

(e) To report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the
tasks entrusted to him in the present resolution;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories".

B

The General Assembly,

Recalling its relevant resolutions,

Bearing in mind the relevant resolutions of the Security Council,

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 9

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories 7/ and the relevant reports of the Secretary-
General, 8/

Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising from
the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments and rules of
international law is among the basic purposes and principles of the United
Nations,

Stressing that Israel, the occupying Power, should comply strictly with its
obligations under international law,

1. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 4/ is applicable to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967;

2. Demands that Israel accept the de jure applicability of the Convention
in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, and that it comply scrupulously with
the provisions of the Convention;

3. Calls upon all States parties to the Convention, in accordance with
article 1 common to the four Geneva Conventions, 11/ to exert all efforts in
order to ensure respect for its provisions by Israel, the occupying Power, in
the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab
territories occupied by Israel since 1967;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution.

C

The General Assembly,

Recalling its relevant resolutions and the resolutions of the Commission on
Human Rights,

Bearing in mind the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the most
recent of which is resolution 904 (1994) of 18 March 1994,

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories 7/ and the reports of the Secretary-
General, 8/

Aware of the responsibility of the international community to promote human
rights and ensure respect for international law,

                        

     11/ United Nations Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 10

Reaffirming the principle of the inadmissibility of the acquisition of
territory by force,

Reaffirming also the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 4/ to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967,

Welcoming the signing of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-
Government Arrangements, including its Annexes and its Agreed Minutes, by the
Government of the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization at
Washington, D.C., on 13 September 1993, 9/ as well as the subsequent
implementation agreements, including the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the
Jericho Area signed at Cairo on 4 May 1994 10/ and the Interim Agreement on the 
West Bank and the Gaza Strip signed on 28 September 1995,

Noting the withdrawal of the Israeli army, which took place in the Gaza
Strip and the Jericho area in accordance with the agreements reached between the 
parties, and the initiation of the Palestinian Authority in those areas,

Concerned about the continuing violation of the human rights of the
Palestinian people by Israel, the occupying Power, especially in the use of
collective punishment, closure of areas, annexation and establishment of
settlements, and the continuing actions by it designed to change the legal
status, geographical nature and demographic composition of the occupied
Palestinian territory,

Concerned in particular about the dangerous situation resulting from
actions taken by the illegal, armed Israeli settlers in the occupied territory,
as illustrated by the massacre of Palestinian worshippers by an illegal Israeli
settler in Al-Khalil on 25 February 1994,

Convinced of the positive impact of a temporary international or foreign
presence in the occupied Palestinian territory for the safety and protection of
the Palestinian people,

Expressing appreciation to the countries that participated in the Temporary
International Presence in Hebron for their positive contribution,

Convinced of the need for the full implementation of Security Council
resolution 904 (1994),

1. Determines that all measures and actions taken by Israel, the
occupying Power, in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, in
violation of the relevant provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 4/ and
contrary to the relevant resolutions of the Security Council are illegal and
have no validity, and demands that Israel desist forthwith from taking any such
measures or actions;

2. Reaffirms in particular that the Israeli settlements in the occupied
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and the other Arab territories

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 11

occupied by Israel since 1967 are illegal and an obstacle to achieving
comprehensive peace;

3. Notes with satisfaction the return of a number of deportees to the
occupied Palestinian territory, and calls upon Israel to facilitate the return
of the remainder;

4. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to accelerate the release of
all remaining Palestinians arbitrarily detained or imprisoned, in line with
agreements reached;

5. Calls for complete respect by Israel, the occupying Power, of all
fundamental freedoms of the Palestinian people, pending the extension of the
self-government arrangements to the rest of the West Bank;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution.

D

The General Assembly,

Deeply concerned that the Syrian Golan occupied since 1967 has been under
continued Israeli military occupation,

Recalling Security Council resolution 497 (1981) of 17 December 1981,

Recalling also its previous relevant resolutions, the last of which was
49/36 D of 9 December 1994,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of
20 October 1995, 12/

Recalling further its previous relevant resolutions in which, inter alia,
it called upon Israel to put an end to its occupation of the Arab territories,

Reaffirming once more the illegality of the decision of 14 December 1981
taken by Israel to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the
occupied Syrian Golan, which has resulted in the effective annexation of that
territory,

Reaffirming that the acquisition of territory by force is inadmissible
under the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming also the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 4/ to the
occupied Syrian Golan,

Bearing in mind Security Council resolution 237 (1967) of 14 June 1967,

                        

     12/ A/50/660.

/...



A/50/606
English
Page 12

Welcoming the convening at Madrid of the Peace Conference on the Middle
East on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967
and 338 (1973) of 22 October 1973 aimed at the realization of a just,
comprehensive and lasting peace, and stressing the need for rapid progress in
all bilateral negotiations,

1. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply with the relevant
resolutions on the occupied Syrian Golan, in particular Security Council
resolution 497 (1981), in which the Council, inter alia, decided that the
Israeli decision to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the
occupied Syrian Golan was null and void and without international legal effect,
and demanded that Israel, the occupying Power, should rescind forthwith its
decisions;

2. Also calls upon Israel to desist from changing the physical character,
demographic composition, institutional structure and legal status of the
occupied Syrian Golan and in particular to desist from the establishment of
settlements;

3. Determines that all legislative and administrative measures and
actions taken or to be taken by Israel, the occupying Power, that purport to
alter the character and legal status of the occupied Syrian Golan are null and
void, constitute a flagrant violation of international law and of the Geneva
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August 1949, and have no legal effect;

4. Further calls upon Israel to desist from imposing Israeli citizenship
and Israeli identity cards on the Syrian citizens in the occupied Syrian Golan,
and to desist from its repressive measures against the population of the
occupied Syrian Golan;

5. Deplores the violations by Israel of the Geneva Convention relative to
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949;

6. Calls once again upon Member States not to recognize any of the
legislative or administrative measures and actions referred to above;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution.

-----


