


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/584
28 November 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 64

AMENDMENT OF THE TREATY BANNING NUCLEAR WEAPON TESTS IN
THE ATMOSPHERE, IN OUTER SPACE AND UNDER WATER

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Rajab SUKAYRI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in
the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water" was included in the provisional
agenda of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly in accordance with
Assembly resolution 49/69 of 15 December 1994.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1995, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated
to it, namely, items 57 to 78, 80 and 81. The deliberations on those items took
place at the 3rd to 11th meetings, from 16 to 20 and on 25 and 26 October 1995. 
Structured discussions of specific subjects within the adopted thematic approach
were held from 30 October to 3 November. Consideration of draft resolutions on
the items took place at the 13th to 17th meetings, from 6 to 9 November. Action
on the draft resolutions was taken at the 18th to 29th meetings, on 10, 13 to
17, 20 and 21 November.

4. In connection with item 64, the First Committee had before it a letter
dated 26 July 1995 from the Permanent Representative of Indonesia to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/50/317-S/1995/627).

95-36972 (E) 301195 /...



A/50/584
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/50/L.32

5. At the 15th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Mexico, on behalf
of Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico,
Mongolia, Nepal, Nigeria, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the
United Republic of Tanzania and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water" (A/C.1/50/L.32), which was later
also sponsored by Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei Darussalam, the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Kenya, Papua New Guinea and Peru. 

6. At its 18th meeting on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/50/L.32 by a recorded vote of 95 to 4, with 44 abstentions (see para. 7). 
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, Colombia,
Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

  
Against: Israel, Russian Federation, United Kingdom of Great Britain

and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine. 

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution: 

/...



A/50/584
English
Page 3

Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 46/28 of 6 December 1991, in which it noted the
convening of the Amendment Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty
Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water
from 7 to 18 January 1991, 48/69 of 16 December 1993, in which it noted the
convening of a special meeting of the States parties to that Treaty on
10 August 1993, and 49/69 of 15 December 1994, in which it noted with
satisfaction the commencement of multilateral negotiations for a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty in the Conference on Disarmament on 1 February 1994,

Reiterating its conviction that a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty is
the highest-priority measure for the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and for
the achievement of the objective of nuclear disarmament,

Recalling the central role of the United Nations in the field of nuclear
disarmament and in particular in the cessation of all nuclear-test explosions,
as well as the persistent efforts of non-governmental organizations in the
achievement of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty,

Convinced that the Amendment Conference will facilitate the attainment of
the objectives set forth in the Treaty and thus serve to strengthen it,

Recalling its recommendation that arrangements be made to ensure that
intensive efforts continue, under the auspices of the Amendment Conference,
until a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty is achieved, and its call that all
parties participate in, and contribute effectively to the success of, the
Amendment Conference,

1. Urges all States that have not already done so to adhere to the Treaty
Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under
Water 1/ at the earliest possible date;

2. Urges all States parties to the Treaty to contribute to the conclusion
of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty as soon as possible and no later than
1996 and to its expeditious entry into force;

3. Requests the President of the Amendment Conference to conduct
consultations to those ends;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first
session the item entitled "Amendment of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests
in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water".

-----

________________________

1/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480, No. 6964.


