





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/615/Add.1
11 December 1995
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 12

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Committee (Part II)*

Rapporteur: Basheer F. ZOUBI (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1995, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fiftieth session the item entitled "Report of the Economic and Social
Council" and to allocate to the Second Committee chapters of the Council’s
report (A/50/3) 1/ that were considered under the relevant items of the agenda
(see A/C.2/50/1).

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 15th, 16th, 29th, 32nd,
40th and 42nd meetings, on 26 October, 10, 14 and 30 November and on 8 December.
An account of the Committee’s general discussion of the item is contained in the
relevant summary records (A/C.2/50/SR.15, 16, 29, 32, 40 and 42). Attention is
also drawn to the general debate held by the Committee at its 3rd to
8th meetings, on 3, 4 and 9 to 11 October (see A/C.2/50/SR.3-8).

3. For the consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Economic and Social Council for
1995 (A/50/3); 1/

* The report of the Committee on this item will be issued in two parts
(see also A/50/615).

1/ To be issued in final form as Official Records of the General
Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/50/3/Rev.1).

95-39814 (E) 131295 /...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 2

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing countries,
particularly in Africa (A/50/180-E/1995/63);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on progress made in providing safe
water supply and sanitation for all during the first half of the 1990s
(A/50/213-E/1995/87);

(d) Notes by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Joint
Inspection Unit entitled "Communication for development programmes in the United
Nations system" (A/50/126-E/1995/20) and the comments of the Administrative
Committee on Coordination thereon (A/50/126/Add.1-E/1995/20/Add.1);

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on the United Nations Population Award
(A/50/132);

(f) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Director-
General of the World Health Organization on the progress made in the
implementation of the global AIDS strategy (A/50/175-E/1995/57);

(g) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report prepared by the
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia on economic and social
repercussions of the Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab
population of the Syrian Golan (A/50/262-E/1995/59);

(h) Note by the Secretary-General on the revision of the general
regulations of the World Food Programme and reconstitution of the Committee on
Food Aid Policies and Programmes as the Executive Board of the World Food
Programme (A/50/706);

(i) Letter dated 2 October 1995 from the Permanent Representative of the
Philippines to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the Ministerial Declaration of the Group of 77 adopted on the
occasion of the nineteenth annual meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of
the Group of 77, held at United Nations Headquarters on 29 September 1995
(A/50/518).

4. At the 15th meeting, on 26 October, introductory statements were made by
the Director of the Division for Policy Coordination and Economic and Social
Council Affairs of the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable
Development, the Acting Director of the Global Programme on AIDS of the World
Health Organization and the Inspector of the Joint Inspection Unit (see
A/C.2/50/SR.15).

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 3

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution contained in document A/C.2/50/L.3

5. By its resolution 1995/46 of 27 July 1995, the Economic and Social Council
recommended to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution entitled
"Water supply and sanitation" (see A/C.2/50/L.3).

6. At the 40th meeting, on 30 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Max Stadthagen (Nicaragua), informed the Committee of the outcome of
informal consultations held on the draft resolution and orally revised it by
inserting a new paragraph as the third preambular paragraph, which read as
follows:

"Recalling further its resolution 47/193 of 22 December 1992, in which
it proclaimed 22 March of each year as World Water Day,".

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution contained
in document A/C.2/50/L.3, as orally revised (see para. 26, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution contained in document A/C.2/50/L.4

8. By its resolution 1995/3 of 13 July 1995, the Economic and Social Council
recommended to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution entitled
"Target for World Food Programme pledges for the period 1997-1998" (see
A/C.2/50/L.4).

9. At the 40th meeting, on 30 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Max Stadthagen (Nicaragua), informed the Committee of the outcome of
informal consultations held on the draft resolution.

10. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.4
(see para. 26, draft resolution II).

C. Draft resolutions A/C.2/50/L.10 and A/C.2/50/L.42

11. At the 29th meeting, on 10 November, the representative of the Philippines,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77 and China, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/50/L.10) entitled
"Preventive action and intensification of the struggle against malaria in
developing countries, particularly in Africa", which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming its resolution 49/135 of 19 December 1994,

"Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 1994/34 of
29 July 1994 and 1995/63 of 28 July 1995,

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 4

"Gravely concerned that malaria causes the death of four million
people annually, that hundreds of millions of cases of malaria are reported
annually and that infants and children under five years of age are the
major victims,

"Alarmed by the loss of human life, the severe degradation of the
quality of life and the fact that the social and economic development of
developing countries is impeded as a result of malaria, and despite the
development of new vaccines,

"Reaffirming the agreed conclusions of the coordination segment of the
substantive session of 1993 of the Economic and Social Council on the
coordination of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and
other bodies of the United Nations system in the fields of preventive
action and intensification of the struggle against malaria and diarrhoeal
diseases, in particular cholera, 2/

"Acknowledging the importance for countries where malaria is endemic
of adopting national plans of action in conformity with the Global Malaria
Control Strategy, endorsed by the Ministerial Conference on Malaria held at
Amsterdam in 1992 and by the World Health Assembly in 1993, 3/

"1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on preventive action
and intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing
countries, particularly in Africa; 4/

"2. Reaffirms its endorsement of the Global Malaria Control Strategy
of the World Health Organization;

"3. Expresses its appreciation of the efforts of the World Health
Organization and the specialized agencies concerned in assisting the
developing countries in their efforts to combat endemic diseases;

"4. Notes with appreciation the continued efforts of the affected
countries to control the disease, in spite of their meagre resources,
through national plans and projects and urges the affected countries that
have not yet done so to adopt national plans to control malaria in
conformity with the Global Malaria Control Strategy of the World Health
Organization;

"5. Stresses the need for strengthening national capacity-building in
the context of primary health care so as to enable developing countries to

2/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/48/3/Rev.1), chap. III, sect. B.

3/ World Health Organization, A Global Strategy for Malaria Control
(Geneva, 1993).

4/ A/50/180-E/1995/63.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 5

meet the objectives of the Global Malaria Control Strategy, with a view to
contributing to the development of overall health;

"6. Endorses the strategies and work plans that have been developed
as a collaborative process involving relevant organs, organizations and
programmes of the United Nations system, with the World Health Organization
as task coordinator, to provide optimal support to affected developing
countries in order to achieve the goals and objectives pertaining to the
prevention and control of malaria and diarrhoeal diseases;

"7. Calls upon the international community, in particular the donor
countries, to expand fund-raising channels, to provide adequate financial
resources and medical and technical assistance to the affected developing
countries to enable them to implement their national work plans and
projects, and to intensify basic and applied research on anti-malaria
vaccines as a priority;

"8. Encourages the Director-General of the World Health Organization
to continue his efforts to mobilize international organizations,
multilateral financial institutions, specialized agencies, organs and
programmes of the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations
as well as other groups to provide the affected developing countries, in
particular African countries, with technical, medical and financial
resources and assistance commensurate with the need set out in the national
plans of those countries to control malaria;

"9. Welcomes the proposal of the Secretary-General related to the
struggle against malaria in Africa, contained in his ’Initiatives for
Africa’;

"10. Welcomes with satisfaction the agreement signed between
Dr. Manuel Elkin Patarroyo of Colombia and the World Health Organization,
in May 1995, by which Dr. Patarroyo donated to the World Health
Organization the SPf66 anti-malaria vaccine, which constitutes an example
of solidarity and effective South-South cooperation for development, and
supports the request of the World Health Organization for the provision of
additional resources for malaria research under the United Nations
Development Programme/World Bank/World Health Organization Special
Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases in order to
accomplish its goal of developing an effective vaccine for the control of
malaria;

"11. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the General
Assembly at its fifty-first session a progress report of the Director-
General of the World Health Organization on the implementation of the
strategies and work plans to be prepared in collaboration with the other
relevant organs, organizations, bodies and programmes of the United Nations
system.

12. At the 40th meeting, on 30 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Max Stadthagen (Nicaragua), introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/50/L.42),

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 6

submitted on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/50/L.10.

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.42
(see para. 26, draft resolution III).

14. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.42, draft
resolution A/C.2/50/L.10 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

D. Draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.13

15. At the 32nd meeting, on 14 November, the representative of Egypt introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2/50/L.13) entitled "Economic and social repercussions
of the Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian
territory, including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab population
of the occupied Syrian Golan", on behalf of Bangladesh, Cuba, Egypt (in his
capacity as Chairman of the Group of Arab States for the month of November),
Indonesia and Malaysia.

16. At the 40th meeting, on 30 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Max Stadthagen (Nicaragua), informed the Committee of the outcome of the
informal consultations held on the draft resolution.

17. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.13
by a recorded vote of 91 to 2, with 22 abstentions (see para. 26, draft
resolution IV). 5/ The voting was as follows:

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada,
Chile, China, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Myanmar,
Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Portugal, Romania, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Slovakia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,

5/ The delegations of Cameroon, Colombia, Honduras, Nigeria, Qatar, Sri
Lanka and Yemen subsequently indicated that, had they been present at the time
of the voting, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution; the
delegation of Hungary subsequently indicated that, had it been present at the
time of the voting, it would have abstained on the draft resolution; and the
delegation of Mongolia indicated that it had intended to vote in favour of the
draft resolution.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 7

Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Zambia.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Belarus, Belize, Cambodia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Ethiopia, Gabon, Malawi, Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Nepal, Panama, Poland,
Russian Federation, Ukraine, Uruguay.

18. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements in explanation of
vote were made by the representatives of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Australia
and the Islamic Republic of Iran. The observer for Palestine also made a
statement (see A/C.2/49/SR.40).

E. Draft decision A/C.2/50/L.37

19. At the 40th meeting, on 30 November, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Max Stadthagen (Nicaragua), introduced a draft decision (A/C.2/50/L.37)
entitled "United Nations Population Fund: institutional arrangements",
submitted on the basis of informal consultations, and informed the Committee
that the preambular paragraph would become an operative paragraph by replacing
the word "Noting" with the word "Notes".

20. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft decision A/C.2/50/L.37, as
orally revised (see para. 27, draft decision I).

F. Draft resolutions A/C.2/50/L.14 and A/C.2/50/L.64

21. At the 32nd meeting, on 14 November, the representative of the Philippines,
on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Group of 77 and China, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/50/L.14) entitled
"Communication for development". Subsequently, Kyrgyzstan joined in
co-sponsoring the draft resolution. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Having considered the report of the Joint Inspection Unit entitled
’Communication for development programmes in the United Nations
system’, 6/ and the comments of the Administrative Committee on
Coordination on that report, 7/

6/ A/50/126-E/1995/20, annex.

7/ A/50/126/Add.1-E/1995/20/Add.1, annex.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 8

"Noting the need for the improvement of development communication
within the United Nations system to ensure effective inter-agency
coordination and cooperation,

"Recognizing the pivotal role of communication in the successful
implementation of development programmes within the United Nations system
and in the improvement of the interaction among actors in development,
namely, the organizations, agencies, funds and programmes of the United
Nations system, Governments and non-governmental organizations,

"Recognizing also the crucial role of the regional commissions in the
process of developing communication as an important tool for the
development of developing countries,

"Recognizing further the need for transparent and system-wide
communication coordination within the United Nations system in order to
improve the planning, formulation and execution of development programmes
to benefit the international community, in particular the developing
countries,

"Aware of the need to intensify the efforts aimed at further reducing
administrative and other related costs in various activities of
organizations, agencies, funds and programmes within the United Nations
system without adversely affecting the overall effectiveness of programme
delivery as regards development programmes of the United Nations system as
a development partner in the development of the developing countries,

"Noting that the Joint Inspection Unit will be preparing a separate
study entitled ’A review of telecommunications and related information
technologies in the United Nations system’,

"1. Takes note of the report of the Joint Inspection Unit entitled
’Communication for development programmes in the United Nations system’, 6/
and of the comments of the Administrative Committee on Coordination on that
report; 7/

"2. Recognizes the important role of development communication in
enhancing the transparency of system-wide coordination within the United
Nations system as a development partner for the development of the
developing countries;

"3. Also recognizes the need to intensify work on development
communication with a view to facilitating inter-agency cooperation and
maximizing the impact of the development programmes of the entities
concerned;

"4. Further recognizes the role of effective communication in
disseminating the outcome and follow-up of major United Nations conferences
and in ensuring the effective flow of such information to various
non-governmental organizations, including grass-roots-level organizations;

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 9

"5. Regards the informal mechanism of the round-table conferences,
which brings together communication experts for development and
representatives of the entities of the United Nations including the
Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, as creating an
appropriate forum for continuing to explore the appropriate use of
communication in enhancing the role of the United Nations system as a
development partner and, in this regard, also encourages, as appropriate,
involvement of the various organizations, including the regional
commissions;

"6. Requests the Joint Inspection Unit to include development
communication requirements of developing countries in its study entitled ’A
review of telecommunications and related information technologies in the
United Nations system’;

"7. Emphasizes the need for the organization, agencies, funds and
programmes of the United Nations system to develop a systematic approach to
capacity-building in development communication, particularly with respect
to training of fieldworkers and development workers and technicians as well
as communication planners and specialists, especially in the developing
countries;

"8. Invites organizations, agencies, funds and programmes of the
United Nations system as well as Governments and the regional commissions
to identify focal points for the purpose of facilitating dialogue and
exchange of information on development communication so as to strengthen
coordination and international cooperation in this area;

"9. Calls upon the donor community to provide adequate resources to
support and expand development communication activities, particularly
development communication initiatives for developing countries and, in this
regard, also encourages the use of appropriate funding modalities and
mechanisms within the context of international cooperation;

"10. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the
Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, in accordance with this agency’s mandate in the field of
communication, to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session
on the implementation of the present resolution."

22. At the 42nd meeting, on 8 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Max Stadthagen (Nicaragua), introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/50/L.64)
entitled "Communication for development programmes in the United Nations
system", submitted on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resolution A/C.2/50/L.14. In introducing the draft, he orally revised it by
deleting from operative paragraph 7 the words "Takes note of decision 5.3 of the
Executive Board of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, adopted at its one hundred thirty-ninth session, in which the
Board requested the Joint Inspection Unit to prepare a study entitled ’A review
of telecommunications and related information technologies in the United Nations
system’", and moving the rest of the paragraph, "and, in this context, invites

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 10

the Joint Inspection Unit to take into consideration the requirements of
developing countries", to the end of operative paragraph 1.

23. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.64,
as orally revised (see para. 26, draft resolution V).

24. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/50/L.64, draft
resolution A/C.2/50/L.14 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

G. Documents relating to the report of the
Economic and Social Council

25. At its 42nd meeting, on 8 December, upon the proposal of the Chairman, the
Committee decided to recommend to the General Assembly that it take note of the
documents under the item on which no draft proposals had been submitted (see
para. 27, draft decision II).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

26. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Water supply and sanitation

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35/18 of 10 November 1980, by which it proclaimed
the period 1981-1990 as the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade,

Recalling also its resolution 45/181 of 21 December 1990, in which it
expressed its deep concern about the slow rate of progress in the provision of
services in water and sanitation,

Recalling further its resolution 47/193 of 22 December 1992, in which it
declared 22 March of each year World Day for Water,

Bearing in mind that the Second United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, held in Paris from 3 to 14 September 1990, the World Summit
for Children, held in New York on 29 and 30 September 1990, the Global Strategy
for Shelter to the Year 2000 and the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro from 3 to 14 June 1992, reiterated the
need to provide, on a sustainable basis, access to safe water in sufficient
quantities and proper sanitation for all,

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 11

Deeply concerned that at the current rate of progress the provision of
drinking water will be insufficient to satisfy the needs of a very large number
of people by the year 2000 and that the lack of progress in the provision of
basic sanitation services is likely to have dramatic environmental and health
consequences in the near future,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on
progress made in providing safe water supply and sanitation for all during the
first half of the 1990s; 8/

2. Takes note of the programme strategies in water and environmental
sanitation adopted by the Executive Board of the United Nations Children’s Fund
at its annual session for 1995 9/ and of resolution AFR/RC 43/R2 of the
Regional Committee for Africa of the World Health Organization, in which the
Committee endorsed the Africa 2000 initiative for water supply and sanitation in
Africa;

3. Calls upon Governments to implement fully the provisions concerning
water resources in general and water supply and sanitation in particular
contained in chapter 18 of Agenda 21, 10/ and the recommendations made by the
Commission on Sustainable Development at its second and third sessions, 11/
including the recommendations for action contained in the Action Programme of
the Ministerial Conference on Drinking Water and Environmental Sanitation
convened by the Government of the Netherlands on 22 and 23 March 1994, 12/ in
particular:

(a) To develop, review or revise by 1997 and implement, in the context of
a national sustainable development strategy consistent with Agenda 21, measures
for drinking water supply and environmental sanitation, taking into account the
goals set by the World Summit for Children;

(b) To undertake, as appropriate, legal, regulatory and institutional
reforms designed to bring about the management of water resources at the lowest
appropriate level, including stakeholder participation and the involvement of
the private sector, and to adopt strategies for capacity-building;

8/ A/50/213-E/1995/87.

9/ See E/1995/L.23, sect. IV, decision 1995/22.

10/ Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference,
resolution 1, annex II.

11/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1994,
Supplement No. 13 (E/1994/33/Rev.1); and ibid., 1995, Supplement No. 12
(E/1995/32).

12/ See E/CN.17/1994/12, annex.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 12

(c) To assign high priority to programmes designed to provide basic
sanitation and excreta disposal systems to urban and rural areas and to the
treatment of waste waters, with provisions for community involvement;

(d) To formulate and implement investment strategies and cost-recovery
policies aimed at generating a flow of financial resources commensurate with
needs, taking into account the needs and conditions of the peri-urban and rural
poor;

(e) To establish or strengthen a nationwide water and sanitation
monitoring system, making full use, as appropriate, of the information support
system developed by the Joint Monitoring Programme of the World Health
Organization and the United Nations Children’s Fund;

4. Calls upon the organizations of the United Nations system and other
relevant organizations to intensify their efforts concerning financial and
technical support for developing countries and countries with economies in
transition;

5. Urges donor Governments, multilateral financial and development
institutions and non-governmental organizations to give favourable and
appropriate consideration to requests for grants and concessional financing,
particularly with regard to environmental sanitation and sewerage and to waste-
water treatment projects, which are intended to implement programmes consistent
with the provisions and recommendations referred to in paragraph 3 of the
present resolution;

6. Decides to review at its fifty-fifth session the situation at the end
of the 1990s and requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to it,
through the Commission on Sustainable Development and the Economic and Social
Council, containing an assessment of the water supply and sanitation situation
in developing countries, including proposals for action for the ensuing decade
at the national and international levels.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Target for World Food Programme pledges for
the period 1997-1998

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of its resolution 2095 (XX) of 20 December 1965 to
the effect that the World Food Programme was to be reviewed before each pledging
conference,

Noting that the Programme was reviewed by the Committee on Food Aid
Policies and Programmes of the World Food Programme at its thirty-seventh
session and by the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session of
1994,

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 13

Having considered Economic and Social Council resolution 1995/3 of
13 July 1995 and the comments of the Committee on Food Aid Policies and
Programmes, 13/

Recognizing the value of multilateral food aid as implemented by the World
Food Programme since its inception and the necessity for continuing its action
both as a form of capital investment and for meeting emergency food needs,

1. Establishes for the period 1997-1998 a target for voluntary
contributions to the World Food Programme of $1.3 billion;

2. Urges States Members of the United Nations and members and associate
members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and
appropriate donor organizations to make every effort to ensure that the target
is fully attained;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Director-
General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, to
convene a pledging conference for this purpose at United Nations Headquarters in
1996.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Preventive action and intensification of the struggle
against malaria in developing countries, particularly

in Africa

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolution 49/135 of 19 December 1994,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 1994/34 of 29 July 1994
and 1995/63 of 28 July 1995,

Gravely concerned by the fact that malaria causes the death of four million
people annually, that hundreds of millions of cases of malaria are reported
annually and that infants and children under age five are the major victims,

Alarmed by the loss of human life, the severe degradation in the quality of
life and the fact that the social and economic development of developing
countries is impeded as a result of malaria, and despite the development of new
vaccines,

Recalling the agreed conclusions of the coordination segment of the
substantive session of 1993 of the Economic and Social Council on the
coordination of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and
other bodies of the United Nations system in the fields of preventive action and

13/ See E/1995/96.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 14

intensification of the struggle against malaria and diarrhoeal diseases, in
particular cholera, 14/

Acknowledging the importance for countries where malaria is endemic of
adopting national plans of action in conformity with the Global Malaria Control
Strategy of the World Health Organization, 15/ endorsed by the Ministerial
Conference on Malaria held at Amsterdam in 1992 and by the World Health Assembly
in 1993,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing countries,
particularly in Africa; 16/

2. Reaffirms its endorsement of the Global Malaria Control Strategy of
the World Health Organization, as adopted;

3. Expresses its appreciation of the efforts of the World Health
Organization and the specialized agencies concerned in assisting the developing
countries in their efforts to combat endemic diseases;

4. Notes with appreciation the continuing efforts of the affected
countries to control the disease, in spite of their meagre resources, through
national plans and projects, and urges the affected countries that have not yet
done so to adopt national plans to control malaria in conformity with the Global
Malaria Control Strategy of the World Health Organization;

5. Stresses the need for strengthening national capacity-building within
the context of primary health care so as to enable developing countries to meet
the objectives of the Global Malaria Control Strategy, with a view to
contributing to the development of overall health;

6. Endorses the strategies and work plans that have been developed
through a collaborative process involving relevant organs, organizations and
programmes of the United Nations system, with the World Health Organization as
task coordinator, to provide optimal support to affected developing countries in
order to achieve the goals and objectives pertaining to the prevention and
control of malaria and diarrhoeal diseases;

7. Calls upon the international community, in particular the donor
countries, to expand, where possible, fund-raising channels and to provide
adequate financial resources and medical and technical assistance to the
affected developing countries, in particular African countries and least
developed countries, for the successful implementation of work plans and

14/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/48/3/Rev.1), chap. III, sect. B.

15/ World Health Organization, A Global Strategy for Malaria Control
(Geneva, 1993).

16/ A/50/180-E/1995/63.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 15

projects and the achievement of significant progress in both the short and the
medium term in controlling malaria, and to intensify basic and applied research
on anti-malarial vaccines as a priority;

8. Encourages the Director-General of the World Health Organization,
through the World Health Organization’s Division of Control of Tropical
Diseases, to continue his efforts to mobilize international organizations,
multilateral financial institutions, the specialized agencies, organs and
programmes of the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations as
well as other groups to provide the affected developing countries, in particular
African countries, with technical, medical and financial resources and
assistance commensurate with the needs set forth in those countries’ national
plans to control malaria;

9. Welcomes the proposal of the Secretary-General related to the struggle
against malaria in Africa contained in his initiatives for Africa;

10. Welcomes with satisfaction the agreement signed between
Dr. Manuel Elkin Patarroyo of Colombia and the World Health Organization, in
May 1995, by which Dr. Patarroyo donated to the World Health Organization the
licence of the patent rights and know-how related to the SPf66 anti-malarial
vaccine developed by him, which constitutes an example of solidarity and
effective South-South cooperation for development, and supports the request of
the World Health Organization for the provision of additional resources for
malaria research under the United Nations Development Programme/World Bank/World
Health Organization Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical
Diseases in order to accomplish its goal of developing an effective vaccine for
the control of malaria;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session the progress report of the Director-General of the World
Health Organization on the implementation of the strategies and work plans to be
prepared in collaboration with the other relevant organs, organizations, bodies
and programmes of the United Nations system.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli settlements
on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab

population of the occupied Syrian Golan

The General Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1995/49 of 28 July 1995,

Reaffirming the principle of the permanent sovereignty of people under
foreign occupation over their national resources,

Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, affirming
the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force, and recalling

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 16

Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967 and 497 (1981) of
17 December 1981,

Recalling Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of 1 March 1980 and other
resolutions affirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 17/ to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 904 (1994) of 18 March 1994, in
which, among other things, the Council called upon Israel, the occupying Power,
to continue to take and implement measures, including, inter alia, confiscation
of arms, with the aim of preventing illegal acts of violence by Israeli
settlers, and called for measures to be taken to guarantee the safety and
protection of the Palestinian civilians in the occupied territory,

Aware of the negative and grave economic and social repercussions of the
Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, and on the Arab population of the
occupied Syrian Golan,

Welcoming the ongoing Middle East peace process started at Madrid, in
particular the two implementation agreements embodied in the Agreement on the
Gaza Strip and Jericho Area, 18/ of 4 May 1994, and the interim agreement on
the West Bank and Gaza Strip of 28 September 1995,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General; 19/

2. Reaffirms that Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied since 1967 are illegal
and an obstacle to economic and social development;

3. Recognizes the economic and social repercussions of the Israeli
settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory occupied by
Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, and on the Arab population of the
occupied Syrian Golan;

4. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the Palestinian people and the
population of the occupied Syrian Golan to their natural and all other economic
resources, and regards any infringement thereupon as illegal;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session, through the Economic and Social Council, a report on
the progress made in the implementation of the present resolution.

17/ United Nations Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.

18/ A/49/180-S/1994/727, annex.

19/ A/50/262-E/1995/59.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 17

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Communication for development programmes in the
United Nations system

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Joint Inspection Unit entitled
"Communication for development programmes in the United Nations system", 20/
and the comments of the Administrative Committee on Coordination on that
report, 21/

Noting the need for the improvement of the development of communication
capacities within the United Nations system to ensure effective inter-agency
coordination and cooperation,

Recognizing the pivotal role of communication in the successful
implementation of development programmes within the United Nations system and in
the improvement of the interaction among actors in development, namely, the
agencies, organizations, funds and programmes of the United Nations system,
Governments and non-governmental organizations,

Recognizing also that the regional commissions can play a role, where
appropriate, in the development of communication capacities for the development
of developing countries,

Recognizing further the need for transparent and system-wide communication
coordination within the United Nations system in order to improve the planning,
formulation and execution of development programmes to benefit the international
community, in particular the developing countries,

Aware of the need to intensify the efforts aimed at further reducing
administrative and other related costs in various activities of agencies,
organizations, funds and programmes within the United Nations system and
improving the effectiveness of programme delivery as regards development
programmes of the United Nations system as a development partner in the
development of the developing countries,

Noting that the Joint Inspection Unit will be preparing a separate study
entitled "A review of telecommunications and related information technologies in
the United Nations system",

1. Takes note of the report of the Joint Inspection Unit entitled
"Communication for development programmes in the United Nations system" 20/ and
of the comments of the Administrative Committee on Coordination on that
report, 21/ and, in this context, invites the Joint Inspection Unit to take into
consideration the requirements of developing countries;

20/ A/50/126-E/1995/20, annex.

21/ A/50/126/Add.1-E/1995/20/Add.1, annex.

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 18

2. Recognizes the important role of communication for development
programmes in the United Nations system in enhancing the transparency of system-
wide coordination within the United Nations system, inter alia, for the
development of the developing countries;

3. Invites the Committee on Information, in accordance with its mandate,
and where appropriate, to consider this question at its forthcoming session;

4. Recognizes the need further to facilitate inter-agency cooperation and
to maximize the impact of the development programmes of the entities concerned;

5. Also recognizes the role of effective communication in disseminating
the outcome and follow-up of major United Nations conferences and in ensuring
the effective flow of such information to various non-governmental
organizations, including grass-roots-level organizations;

6. Encourages the relevant agencies, organizations, funds and programmes
of the United Nations system, including the regional commissions, as
appropriate, to use informal mechanisms such as round-table conferences to
improve communication for development programmes in the United Nations system;

7. Emphasizes the need for the relevant agencies, organizations, funds
and programmes of the United Nations system to develop a systematic approach to
capacity-building in the development of communication capacities, particularly
with respect to the training of field workers and development workers and
technicians as well as communication planners and specialists, especially in the
developing countries;

8. Invites the relevant agencies, organizations, funds and programmes of
the United Nations system, as well as Governments and the regional commissions,
to consider identifying focal points for the purpose of facilitating dialogue in
the exchange of information on communication on issues related to development so
as to strengthen coordination and international cooperation in this area;

9. Invites all countries, in particular the donor community, to provide
resources, as appropriate, to support initiatives on development of capacities
for developing countries;

10. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Director-
General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
in accordance with that agency’s mandate in the field of communication and with
the relevant resolution adopted at its last general conference, to report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present
resolution and on a biennial basis thereafter.

* * *

27. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decisions:

/...



A/50/615/Add.1
English
Page 19

DRAFT DECISION I

United Nations Population Fund: institutional arrangements

The General Assembly:

(a) Notes Economic and Social Council decision 1995/231 of 13 July 1995,
and decision 95/20 of 14 June 1995 of the Executive Board of the United Nations
Development Programme/United Nations Population Fund;

(b) Endorses the agreement between the United Nations Development
Programme and the United Nations Population Fund to designate Fund resident
country directors as Fund representatives, on the understanding that the Fund
would take measures to enhance cooperation with and active support for resident
coordinators for operational activities of the United Nations, bearing in mind
General Assembly resolution 47/199 of 22 December 1992, and on the understanding
that the agreement would not result in increased administrative expenditure for
the Fund.

DRAFT DECISION II

Documents relating to the report of the
Economic and Social Council

The General Assembly decides to take note of the following documents:

(a) Note by the Secretary-General on the United Nations Population Award
(A/50/132);

(b) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Director-
General of the World Health Organization on the progress made in the
implementation of the global AIDS strategy (A/50/175-E/1995/57);

(c) Note by the Secretary-General on the revision of the general
regulations of the World Food Programme and reconstitution of the Committee on
Food Aid Policies and Programmes as the Executive Board of the World Food
Programme (A/50/706).

-----


