





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/566/Add.4
29 November 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 64

THE ROLE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE CONTEXT
OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, DISARMAMENT AND OTHER

RELATED FIELDS

Report of the First Committee (Part V)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Parfait-Serge ONANGA-ANYANGA (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The First Committee considered agenda item 64 jointly with all the other
items relating to disarmament and international security (for details, see
A/51/566). For the documents before the Committee under item 64, see A/51/566,
paragraph 3.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/51/L.34

2. At the 15th meeting of the Committee, on 6 November 1996, the
representative of Canada, on behalf of Austria, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Cambodia, Canada, Chile, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Kazakstan, Lithuania, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Poland, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, South Africa and Sweden, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields" (A/C.1/51/L.34).
Subsequently Australia, Guatemala, Iceland, Luxembourg and the Republic of Korea
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

* The reports of the Committee on all the agenda items relating to
disarmament and international security (items 60, 61 and 63-81) will be issued
under the symbol A/51/566 and addenda.

96-34537 (E) 041296 /...

*9634537*



A/51/566/Add.4
English
Page 2

3. At its 23rd meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.34 by a recorded vote of 137 to none, with 11 abstentions (see
para. 4). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Burkina Faso, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Gabon,
India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Namibia, Pakistan,
Sri Lanka, Uganda, United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

4. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The role of science and technology in the context of international
security, disarmament and other related fields

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject of the role of science
and technology in the context of international security, disarmament and other
related fields, in which, inter alia, it recognized that scientific and

/...



A/51/566/Add.4
English
Page 3

technological developments could have both civilian and military applications
and that progress in science and technology for civilian applications needed to
be maintained and encouraged,

1. Invites Member States to enhance bilateral and multilateral dialogue
on the role of science and technology in the context of international security,
disarmament and other related fields, with a view to:

(a) Ensuring implementation of relevant commitments already undertaken
under international legal instruments;

(b) Exploring ways and means of further developing international legal
rules on transfers of high technology with military applications;

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third
session the item entitled "The role of science and technology in the context of
international security, disarmament and other related fields".

-----


