


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/601
6 December 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 12

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Committee

Rapporteur: Ms. Silvia Cristina CORADO-CUEVAS (Guatemala)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1996, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-first session the item entitled "Report of the Economic and Social
Council" and to allocate to the Second Committee the relevant chapters of the
Council's report.1

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 27th, 28th and 35th to
38th meetings, on 6, 18 and 25 November and on 2 December 1996. An account of
the Committee's consideration of the item is contained in the relevant summary
records (A/C.2/51/SR.27, 28 and 35-38). Attention is also drawn to the general
debate held by the Committee at its 3rd to 6th and 8th meetings, from 14 to
18 October (A/C.2/51/SR.3-6 and 8).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Economic and Social Council for
1996 (chaps. I, III, IV, V (sects. B-E and H) and VII);1

  (b) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Economic
and Social Commission for Western Asia on economic and social repercussions of
the Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,

                        

     1 A/51/3 (Parts I-III); to be issued in final form as Official Records of
the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/51/3/Rev.1).

96-35446 (E) 111296 /...



A/51/601
English
Page 2

including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab population of the
occupied Syrian Golan (A/51/135-E/1996/51);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing countries,
particularly in Africa (A/51/379);

(d) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Executive
Director of the United Nations Population Fund on the United Nations Population
Award (A/51/534).

4. At the 27th meeting, on 6 November, introductory statements were made by
the Director of the Division for Policy Coordination and Economic and Social
Council Affairs of the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable
Development, the Director of the Division of Control of Tropical Diseases of the
World Health Organization and the Chief of the Regional Commissions New York
Office (see A/C.2/51/SR.27).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution contained in document A/C.2/51/L.2

5. At its 36th meeting, on 25 November, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution entitled "Institutional arrangements for the implementation of the
Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine Environment from
Land-based Activities" (see A/C.2/51/L.2), which the Economic and Social
Council, in its resolution 1996/1 of 11 July 1996, had recommended to the
General Assembly for adoption.

6. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of Ireland, on behalf of the European Union (see A/C.2/51/SR.36).

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution contained
in document A/C.2/51/L.2 (see para. 24, draft resolution I).

8. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of the United States of America (see A/C.2/51/SR.36).

B. Draft resolutions A/C.2/51/L.29 and A/C.2/51/L.30 and Rev.2

9. At the 35th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of the Syrian Arab
Republic, on behalf of the Group of Arab States, Afghanistan and Cuba,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Economic and social repercussions of the
Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the Arab population of the
occupied Syrian Golan" (A/C.2/51/L.29), which read:

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 3

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/40 of
26 July 1996,

"Reaffirming the principle of the permanent sovereignty of people
under foreign occupation over their national resources,

"Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
affirming the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force, and
recalling Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967 and
497 (1981) of 17 December 1981,

"Recalling Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of 1 March 1980 and
other resolutions in which the Security Council affirmed the applicability
of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in
Time of War, of 12 August 1949, to the occupied Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since
1967,

"Also recalling Security Council resolution 904 (1994) of
18 March 1994, in which, among other things, the Council called upon
Israel, the occupying Power, to continue to take and implement measures,
including, inter alia, confiscation of arms, with the aim of preventing
illegal acts of violence by Israeli settlers, and called for measures to be
taken to guarantee the safety and protection of the Palestinian civilians
in the occupied territory,

"Welcoming the ongoing Middle East peace process started at Madrid on
30 October 1991 on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967),
338 (1973) of 22 October 1973 and 425 (1978) of 19 March 1978 and the
principle of land for peace, in particular the two implementation
agreements embodied in the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area
of 4 May 1994 and the Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip
of 28 September 1995,

"Aware of the negative and grave economic and social repercussions of
the Israeli settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian
territory, occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, and on the Arab
population of the occupied Syrian Golan,

"1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;2

"2. Reaffirms that Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied since 1967 are
illegal and an obstacle to economic and social development;

"3. Recognizes the economic and social repercussions of the Israeli
settlements on the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory occupied

                        

     2 A/51/135-E/1996/51.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 4

by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, and on the Arab population of
the occupied Syrian Golan;

"4. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the Palestinian people and the
population of the occupied Syrian Golan to their natural and all other
economic resources, and regards any infringement thereupon as illegal;

"5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its fifty-second session, through the Economic and Social Council, a
report on the progress made in the implementation of the present
resolution."

10. At the same meeting, the representative of Malaysia, on behalf of
Bangladesh, Egypt, Malaysia, Mauritania, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab
Emirates and Yemen, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Natural resources of
the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other occupied Arab
territories" (A/C.2/51/L.30), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming the principle of the permanent sovereignty of peoples
under foreign occupation over their natural resources,

"Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and
affirming the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by war,

"Reaffirming the applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention
relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August 1949, to the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem,
and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967,

"Expressing concern at the exploitation by Israel, the occupying
Power, of the natural resources of the occupied Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since
1967,

"Aware of the additional, dangerous impact of the Israeli colonial
settlements on Palestinian and other Arab natural resources, especially the
confiscation of land and the theft of water resources,

"Welcoming the Middle East peace process and the agreements reached,
and calling for the scrupulous implementation of those agreements,

"1. Reaffirms the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and
the population of the occupied Syrian Golan to sovereignty over their
natural resources, including their land, water, archaeological ruins and
artifacts, and geological resources;

"2. Reaffirms also the obligations of Israel, the occupying Power,
under international law, not to exploit, cause loss and depletion of or
endanger the natural resources in the occupied Palestinian territory,

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 5

including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since
1967, and requests that Israel abide by these obligations;

"3. Recognizes the right of the Palestinian people to restitution and
full compensation as a result of any exploitation, loss or depletion of, or
damage to, their natural resources;

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of
the present resolution, and decides to include on the agenda of its
fifty-second session the item 'Permanent sovereignty of peoples under
foreign occupation over their natural resources'."

11. At the 37th meeting, on 2 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Kheirreddine Ramoul (Algeria), informed the Committee of the results of the
informal consultations held on draft resolutions A/C.2/51/L.29 and L.30, and
drew the Committee's attention to a revised draft resolution entitled "Permanent
sovereignty of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and of the Arab population in the occupied Syrian Golan
over their natural resources" (A/C.2/51/L.30/Rev.2), submitted by the sponsors
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.30 and Algeria.

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Malaysia informed the Committee
that Cuba, Jordan and Saudi Arabia had joined in sponsoring the revised draft
resolution.

13. Before the adoption of the revised draft resolution, statements were made
by the representatives of Israel and Lebanon (see A/C.2/51/SR.37).

14. Also at its 37th meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.30/Rev.2 by a recorded vote of 123 to 2, with 17 abstentions (see
para. 24, draft resolution II). The voting was as follows:3

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada,
Chad, Chile, China, Comoros, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador,
Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,

                        

     3 The representative of Eritrea subsequently indicated that he had intended
to vote in favour, and the representative of Colombia stated that had he been
present he would have voted in favour.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 6

Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, the United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Côte d'Ivoire,
El Salvador, Fiji, Georgia, Kenya, Liberia, Marshall Islands,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Paraguay, Ukraine, Uruguay.

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Japan, Ireland (on behalf of the European Union), the United
States of America, Argentina, Australia, Canada and the Islamic Republic of Iran
(see A/C.2/51/SR.37).

16. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.30/Rev.2, draft
resolution A/C.2/51/L.29 was withdrawn by its sponsors.

C. Draft resolution contained in document A/C.2/51/L.37

17. At its 37th meeting, on 2 December, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution entitled "United Nations Declaration against Corruption and Bribery
in International Commercial Transactions" (see A/C.2/51/L.37), which the
Economic and Social Council, in its resolution 1996/51 of 20 November 1996, had
recommended to the General Assembly for adoption.

18. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Australia and China (see A/C.2/51/SR.37).

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution contained
in document A/C.2/51/L.37 (see para. 24, draft resolution III).

20. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United States of America, Mexico, South Africa and
Venezuela (see A/C.2/51/SR.37).

D. Draft decision

Documents relating to the report of the Economic and Social Council

21. At its 37th meeting, on 2 December, on the proposal of the Chairman, the
Committee decided to recommend to the General Assembly that it take note of
documents before it under the item (see para. 25, draft decision I).

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 7

Biennial programme of work of the Second Committee for 1997-1998

22. At the 38th meeting, on 2 December, the representative of the Secretariat
introduced and read out corrections to the draft biennial programme of work of
the Second Committee for 1997-1998 (A/C.2/51/L.40, annex).

23. At the same meeting, the Committee approved the draft biennial programme of
work of the Second Committee for 1997-1998, as orally corrected, and decided to
recommend it to the General Assembly for adoption (see para. 25, draft
decision II).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

24. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Institutional arrangements for the implementation of
the Global Programme of Action for the Protection of
the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities

The General Assembly,

Recalling the relevant provisions of Agenda 21,4 in particular chapters 17,
33, 34, 38 and other related chapters, and the Rio Declaration on Environment
and Development,5

Recalling also its resolution 50/110 of 20 December 1995 on the report of
the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme, in which it
endorsed, inter alia, Governing Council decision 18/31 on the protection of the
marine environment from land-based activities,

Noting the successful conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference to
Adopt a Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine Environment
from Land-based Activities, which was held in Washington, D.C., from 23 October
to 3 November 1995,

Having considered the Washington Declaration on Protection of the Marine
Environment from Land-based Activities6 and the Global Programme of Action for

                        

     4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development,
Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference
(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1,
annex II.

     5 Ibid., annex I.

     6 A/51/116, annex I, appendix II.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 8

the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities,7 as well as
the proposal of the United Nations Environment Programme on institutional
arrangements and implementation of the Global Programme of Action and relevant
recommendations of the Commission on Sustainable Development,

1. Endorses the Washington Declaration on Protection of the Marine
Environment from Land-based Activities and the Global Programme of Action for
the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities;

2. Stresses the need for States to take the necessary measures for the
implementation of the Global Programme of Action at the national and, as
appropriate, the regional and international levels;

3. Also stresses the need for States to take action for the formal
endorsement by each competent international organization of those parts of the
Global Programme of Action that are relevant to their mandates and to accord
appropriate priority to the implementation of the Global Programme of Action in
the work programme of each organization;

4. Further stresses the need for States to take such action at the next
meetings of the governing bodies of the United Nations Environment Programme,
the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements (Habitat), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations, the World Health Organization, the International Maritime Organization,
the International Atomic Energy Agency, the International Labour Organization
and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and in the
Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization and the relevant bodies of the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, as well as in other competent
international and regional organizations within and outside the United Nations
system;

5. Further stresses the need for international cooperation, as outlined
in sections IV.A and B of the Global Programme of Action, in capacity-building,
technology transfer and cooperation, and the mobilization of financial
resources, including support, in particular for developing countries, especially
the least developed countries, countries with economies in transition and small
island developing States, and to this end calls upon bilateral donors and
international, regional and subregional financial institutions and mechanisms,
including the Global Environment Facility, and other competent development and
financial institutions:

(a) To ensure that their programmes give appropriate priority for country-
driven projects aimed at the implementation of the Global Programme of Action;

(b) To assist with capacity-building in the preparation and implementation
of national programmes and in identifying ways and means of funding them;

                        

     7 Ibid., annex II.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 9

(c) To improve their coordination so as to enhance the delivery of
financial and other support;

6. Invites non-governmental organizations and major groups to initiate
and strengthen their actions to facilitate and support the effective
implementation of the Global Programme of Action;

7. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment
Programme to prepare, for the consideration of the Governing Council at its
nineteenth session, specific proposals on:

(a) The role of the United Nations Environment Programme in the
implementation of the Global Programme of Action, including the relevant role of
its Regional Seas Programme and Freshwater Unit;

(b) Arrangements for secretariat support to the Global Programme of
Action;

(c) Modalities for periodic intergovernmental review of progress in
implementing the Global Programme of Action;

8. Calls upon the United Nations Environment Programme, within its
available resources, and with the aid of voluntary contributions from States for
this purpose, to take expeditious action to provide for the establishment and
implementation of the clearing-house mechanism referred to in the Global
Programme of Action, and requests the Executive Director of the United Nations
Environment Programme to prepare and submit to the Governing Council at its
nineteenth session specific proposals on, inter alia:

(a) The establishment of an inter-organizational group to develop the
basic design and structure of the clearing-house data directory and its linkages
to information delivery mechanisms;

(b) The means of linking the inter-organizational group to ongoing work
within the United Nations system on the identification of and access to relevant
databases and the comparability of data;

(c) The outline of a pilot project on the development of the clearing-
house's source category component on sewage, to be implemented in partnership
with the World Health Organization;

9. Calls upon States, in relation to the clearing-house mechanism, to
take action in the governing bodies of relevant intergovernmental organizations
and programmes so as to ensure that those organizations and programmes take the
lead in coordinating the development of the clearing-house mechanism with
respect to the following source categories, which are listed in conjunction with
the relevant organization(s) and/or programme(s) but not in order of priority:

(a) Sewage - the World Health Organization;

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 10

(b) Persistent organic pollutants - the Inter-Organization Programme for
the Sound Management of Chemicals, the International Programme on Chemical
Safety and the Intergovernmental Forum on Chemical Safety;

(c) Heavy metals - the United Nations Environment Programme in cooperation
with the Inter-Organization Programme for the Sound Management of Chemicals;

(d) Radioactive substances - the International Atomic Energy Agency;

(e) Nutrients and sediment mobilization - the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations;

(f) Oils (hydrocarbons) and litter - the International Maritime
Organization;

(g) Physical alterations, including habitat modification and destruction
of areas of concern - the United Nations Environment Programme;

10. Decides to determine, at its special session to be held in June 1997
in accordance with its resolution 50/113 of 20 December 1995, specific
arrangements for integrating the outcomes of periodic intergovernmental reviews,
as envisaged in paragraph 7 (c) above, in the future work of the Commission on
Sustainable Development related to the monitoring of the implementation of and
follow-up to Agenda 21, in particular chapter 17.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

   Permanent sovereignty of the Palestinian people in the
   occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem,
   and of the Arab population in the occupied Syrian Golan

 over their natural resources

The General Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/40 of 26 July 1996, 

Reaffirming the principle of the permanent sovereignty of people under
foreign occupation over their natural resources,

Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, affirming
the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force, and recalling
Security Council resolutions, including resolutions 242 (1967) of
22 November 1967, 465 (1980) of 1 March 1980 and 497 (1981) of 17 December 1981,

Reaffirming the applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention relative to
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,8 to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967,

                        

     8 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 11

Expressing concern at the exploitation by Israel, the occupying Power, of
the natural resources of the occupied Palestinian territory, including
Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967,

Aware of the additional, detrimental economic and social impact of the
Israeli settlements on Palestinian and other Arab natural resources, especially
the confiscation of land and the forced diversion of water resources,

Welcoming the ongoing Middle East peace process which was started at Madrid
on 30 October 1991 and which is based on Security Council resolutions
242 (1967), 338 (1973) of 22 October 1973 and 425 (1978) of 19 March 1978 and
the principle of land for peace, in particular the two implementation agreements
embodied in the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area of 4 May 19949

and the Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of
28 September 1995,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;10

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the Palestinian people and the
population of the occupied Syrian Golan over their natural resources, including
land and water;

3. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, not to exploit, to cause loss
and depletion of or to endanger the natural resources in the occupied
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan;

4. Recognizes the right of the Palestinian people to claim restitution as
a result of any exploitation, loss or depletion of, or danger to, their natural
resources, and expresses the hope that this issue will be dealt with in the
framework of the final status negotiation between the Palestinian and Israeli
sides;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its fifty-second
session on the implementation of the present resolution, and decides to include
in the agenda of its fifty-second session the item entitled "Permanent
sovereignty of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and of the Arab population in the occupied Syrian Golan
over their natural resources".

                        

     9 A/49/180-S/1994/727, annex.

     10 A/51/135-E/1996/51.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 12

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

United Nations Declaration against Corruption and Bribery
in International Commercial Transactions

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3514 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, in which it,
inter alia, condemned all corrupt practices, including bribery, in international
commercial transactions, reaffirmed the right of any State to adopt legislation
and to investigate and take appropriate legal action, in accordance with its
national laws and regulations, against such corrupt practices, and called upon
all Governments to cooperate to prevent corrupt practices, including bribery,

Recalling also the further work carried out by the General Assembly and the
Economic and Social Council on the issue of illicit payments and on elaborating
a code of conduct for transnational corporations,11 consideration of which helped
call attention to and raise international awareness of the adverse consequences
of bribery in international commercial transactions,

Recalling further its resolution 50/106 of 20 December 1995, in which it
recommended that the Economic and Social Council consider the draft
international agreement on illicit payments at its substantive session of 1996
and report to the Assembly at its fifty-first session,

Welcoming the steps taken at the national, the regional, and the
international level to fight corruption and bribery, as well as recent
developments in international forums that have further advanced international
understanding and cooperation regarding corruption and bribery in international
commercial transactions,

Noting the adoption in March 1996 by States members of the Organization of
American States of the Inter-American Convention against Corruption,12 which
includes an article on transnational bribery,

Noting also significant continuing work relevant to and consistent with the
objectives of the present resolution in other regional and international forums,
such as the continuing work of the Council of Europe and the European Union to
combat international bribery, as well as the commitment by the States members of
the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development13 to criminalize
bribery of foreign public officials in international commercial transactions in
an effective and coordinated manner and further examine the modalities and
appropriate international instruments to facilitate criminalization, and to
re-examine the tax deductibility of such bribes with the intention of denying
such tax deductibility in the member States that do not already do so,

                        

     11 E/1991/31/Add.1.

     12 See E/1996/99.

     13 See E/1996/106.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 13

1. Adopts the United Nations Declaration against Corruption and Bribery
in International Commercial Transactions, the text of which is annexed to the
present resolution;

2. Notes the work being undertaken by the United Nations and in other
international and regional forums to address the problem of corruption and
bribery in international commercial transactions, and invites all States
concerned to pursue the completion of such work;

3. Invites Member States, in accordance with the Declaration, to take
appropriate measures and cooperate at all levels to combat corruption and
bribery in international commercial transactions;

4. Requests the Economic and Social Council and its subsidiary bodies, in
particular the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice:

(a) To examine ways, including through legally binding international
instruments, without in any way precluding, impeding or delaying international,
regional or national actions, to further the implementation of the present
resolution and the annexed Declaration, so as to promote the criminalization of
corruption and bribery in international commercial transactions;

(b) To keep the issue of corruption and bribery in international
commercial transactions under regular review;

(c) To promote the effective implementation of the present resolution;

5. Invites other bodies of the United Nations system, including the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, whose competence extends to
this matter to take action as appropriate within their mandates to promote the
objectives of the present resolution and the Declaration;

6. Encourages private and public corporations, including transnational
corporations, and individuals engaged in international commercial transactions
to cooperate in the effective implementation of the Declaration;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to inform Member States, the relevant
bodies and the specialized agencies of the United Nations system, and
international, regional and non-governmental organizations, of the adoption of
the present resolution, to encourage action towards making its provisions widely
known and to promote its effective implementation;

8. Also requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report, for
consideration by the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, on the
progress made towards implementation of the present resolution and the steps
taken by Member States, international and regional organizations and other
relevant institutions to combat corruption and bribery in international
commercial transactions; on the results of the work in this regard undertaken by
the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and other bodies of the
United Nations system; and on measures taken in accordance with the present
resolution to promote social responsibility and the elimination of corruption
and bribery in international commercial transactions;

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 14

9. Invites Member States and competent international, regional and
non-governmental organizations to provide relevant information to assist the
Secretary-General in preparing the above-mentioned report;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third
session, under the item entitled "Business and development", a review of the
report of the Secretary-General concerning the implementation of the present
resolution.

Annex

UNITED NATIONS DECLARATION AGAINST CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY
IN INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS

The General Assembly,

Convinced that a stable and transparent environment for international
commercial transactions in all countries is essential for the mobilization of
investment, finance, technology, skills and other important resources across
national borders, in order, inter alia, to promote economic and social
development and environmental protection,

Recognizing the need to promote social responsibility and appropriate
standards of ethics on the part of private and public corporations, including
transnational corporations, and individuals engaged in international commercial
transactions, inter alia, through observance of the laws and regulations of the
countries in which they conduct business, and taking into account the impact of
their activities on economic and social development and environmental
protection,

Recognizing also that effective efforts at all levels to combat and avoid
corruption and bribery in all countries are essential elements of an improved
international business environment, that they enhance fairness and
competitiveness in international commercial transactions and form a critical
part of promoting transparent and accountable governance, economic and social
development and environmental protection in all countries, and that such efforts
are especially pressing in the increasingly competitive globalized international
economy,

Solemnly proclaims the United Nations Declaration against Corruption and
Bribery in International Commercial Transactions as set out below.

Member States, individually and through international and regional
organizations, taking actions subject to each State's own constitution and
fundamental legal principles and adopted pursuant to national laws and
procedures, commit themselves:

1. To take effective and concrete action to combat all forms of
corruption, bribery and related illicit practices in international commercial
transactions, in particular to pursue effective enforcement of existing laws
prohibiting bribery in international commercial transactions, to encourage the

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 15

adoption of laws for those purposes where they do not exist, and to call upon
private and public corporations, including transnational corporations, and
individuals within their jurisdiction engaged in international commercial
transactions to promote the objectives of this Declaration;

2. To criminalize such bribery of foreign public officials in an
effective and coordinated manner, but without in any way precluding, impeding or
delaying international, regional or national actions to further the
implementation of this Declaration;

3. Bribery may include, inter alia, the following elements:

(a) The offer, promise or giving of any payment, gift or other advantage,
directly or indirectly, by any private or public corporation, including a
transnational corporation, or individual from a State to any public official or
elected representative of another country as undue consideration for performing
or refraining from the performance of that official's or representative's duties
in connection with an international commercial transaction;

(b) The soliciting, demanding, accepting or receiving, directly or
indirectly, by any public official or elected representative of a State from any
private or public corporation, including a transnational corporation, or
individual from another country of any payment, gift or other advantage, as
undue consideration for performing or refraining from the performance of that
official's or representative's duties in connection with an international
commercial transaction;

4. To deny, in countries that do not already do so, the tax deductibility
of bribes paid by any private or public corporation or individual of a State to
any public official or elected representative of another country, and to that
end, to examine their respective modalities for doing so;

5. To develop or maintain accounting standards and practices that improve
the transparency of international commercial transactions, and that encourage
private and public corporations, including transnational corporations, and
individuals engaged in international commercial transactions to avoid and combat
corruption, bribery and related illicit practices;

6. To develop or to encourage the development, as appropriate, of
business codes, standards or best practices that prohibit corruption, bribery
and related illicit practices in international commercial transactions;

7. To examine establishing illicit enrichment by public officials or
elected representatives as an offence; 

8. To cooperate and afford one another the greatest possible assistance
in connection with criminal investigations and other legal proceedings brought
in respect of corruption and bribery in international commercial transactions. 
Mutual assistance shall include, as far as permitted under national laws or as
provided for in bilateral treaties or other applicable arrangements of the
affected countries, and taking into account the need for confidentiality as
appropriate:

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 16

(a) Production of documents and other information, taking of evidence and
service of documents relevant to criminal investigations and other legal
proceedings;

(b) Notice of the initiation and outcome of criminal proceedings
concerning bribery in international commercial transactions to other States that
may have jurisdiction over the same offence;

(c) Extradition proceedings where and as appropriate;

9. To take appropriate action to enhance cooperation to facilitate access
to documents and records about transactions and about identities of persons
engaged in bribery in international commercial transactions;

10. To ensure that bank secrecy provisions do not impede or hinder
criminal investigations or other legal proceedings relating to corruption,
bribery or related illicit practices in international commercial transactions,
and that full cooperation is extended to Governments that seek information on
such transactions;

11. Actions taken in furtherance of this Declaration shall respect fully
the national sovereignty and territorial jurisdiction of Member States, as well
as the rights and obligations of Member States under existing treaties and
international law, and shall be consistent with human rights and fundamental
freedoms;

12. Member States agree that actions taken by them to establish
jurisdiction over acts of bribery of foreign public officials in international
commercial transactions shall be consistent with the principles of international
law regarding the extraterritorial application of a State's laws.

* * *

25. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

DRAFT DECISION I

Documents relating to the report of the Economic and Social Council

The General Assembly takes note of the following documents:

(a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Economic and Social Council for
1996;14

                        

     14 A/51/3 (Parts I-III) (to be issued in final form as Official Records of
the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/51/3/Rev.1)),
chaps. I, III, IV, V (sects. B-E and H) and VII. 

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 17

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on preventive action and
intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing countries,
particularly in Africa;15

(c) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Executive
Director of the United Nations Population Fund on the United Nations Population
Award.16

DRAFT DECISION II

Biennial programme of work of the Second Committee for 1997-1998

The General Assembly, in accordance with paragraph 5 of its resolution
39/217 of 18 December 1984, approves the biennial programme of work of the
Second Committee for 1997-1998, as annexed to the present decision.

ANNEX

Biennial programme of work for the Second Committee
for 1997-199817

1997

Item 1. Report of the Economic and Social Council18

Target for World Food Programme pledges for the period 1999-2000

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council

Prevention and control of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Director-General of the World Health
Organization on progress in the implementation of the
global strategy for the prevention and control of

                        

     15 A/51/379.

     16 A/51/534.

     17 The Second Committee will, in accordance with established practice and in
pursuance of General Assembly decision 38/429, hold a general debate each year
at the beginning of its work.

     18 The list of questions and documentation under this item corresponds to
requests for reports from the General Assembly. The list will be finalized
after the Economic and Social Council completes its work in 1997.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 18

acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (General
Assembly resolution 47/40)19

World Food Summit

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations on the outcome of
the World Food Summit (General Assembly resolution
50/109)19

Permanent sovereignty over national resources in the occupied
Palestinian and other Arab territories

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on economic and
social repercussions of the Israeli settlements on
the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, occupied since 1967, and on the
Arab population of the occupied Syrian Golan
(Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/40)19

Coordination of the activities of the organizations of the United
Nations system in the field of energy

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the possibilities
of strengthening the coordination of the
organizations and bodies of the United Nations system
in the field of energy (Economic and Social Council
resolution 1996/44)19

New and innovative ideas for generating funds

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on all aspects of new
and innovative ideas for generating funds for
globally agreed commitments and priorities (Economic
and Social Council resolution 1996/48)19

Item 2. Macroeconomic policy questions

(a) Financing of development, including net transfer of resources between
developing and developed countries

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 50/93 as related to
the preparations for the convening of an
international conference on the financing of
development

                        

     19 Report submitted to the General Assembly through the Economic and Social
Council.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 19

Report of the Secretary-General on global financial
integration and the strengthening of collaboration
between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods
institutions (draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.50)

(b) Trade and development

Documentation Report of the Trade and Development Board (General
Assembly resolution 1995 (XIX))19

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 50/96 on economic
measures as a means of political and economic
coercion against developing countries

Report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development on specific
actions related to the particular needs and problems
of landlocked developing countries (General Assembly
resolution 50/97)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.16/Rev.1, sect. III, para. 14)

(c) Science and technology for development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on progress in the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 50/101

(d) External debt crisis and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.24/Rev.1

Item 3. Sectoral policy questions

(a) Industrial development cooperation

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 50/94 on the Second
Industrial Development Decade for Africa

(b) Business and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolution 48/180)

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 20

(c) Food and sustainable agricultural development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the World Food Summit Plan of Action (draft
resolution A/C.2/51/L.47)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations on the outcome of
the World Food Summit19 (General Assembly resolution
50/109 and draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.47)

Item 4. Sustainable development and international economic cooperation

(a) Agenda for development

(i) Agenda for development

No documentation requested

    (ii) Renewal of the dialogue on strengthening international economic
cooperation for development through partnership

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.52

(b) Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries for the 1990s

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 50/103

(c) Population and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.43

(d) International migration and development, including the convening of a
United Nations conference on international migration and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolution 50/123)

(e) Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on
Human Settlements (Habitat II)

Documentation Report of the Commission on Human Settlements,
including the report of the Commission on the
implementation of the Global Strategy for Shelter to
the Year 2000 (General Assembly resolutions 32/162,
43/180 and 43/181)19

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 21

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.15/Rev.119

Report of the Secretary-General containing an
assessment of the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements with a view to its revitalization (draft
resolution A/C.2/51/L.15/Rev.1)

(f) First United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.51, including the
overall assessment of the implementation of the
programme for the observance of the International
Year for the Eradication of Poverty

(g) Women in development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the effective
mobilization and integration of women in development
(General Assembly resolutions 42/178 and 50/104)19

(h) Human resources development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 50/105

(i) Cultural development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General and the Director-
General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization on progress in the
implementation of the World Decade for Cultural
Development (General Assembly resolutions 41/187,
44/238, 45/189, 46/157 and 49/105 and Economic and
Social Council decision 1996/206)19

Item 5. Environment and sustainable development

Documentation Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme (General Assembly resolution
2997 (XXVII))19

Note by the Secretary-General on international
conventions and protocols in the field of the
environment (General Assembly resolution 3436 (XXX))

Oral report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 50/110

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 22

(a) Implementation of decisions and recommendations of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development

Documentation Relevant section of the report of the Economic and
Social Council on the work of the Commission on
Sustainable Development at its fifth session (General
Assembly resolution 47/191)

(b) Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat
Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or
Desertification, Particularly in Africa

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 50/114 on
desertification and drought, and draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.39

(c) Protection of global climate for present and future generations of
mankind

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the review of the
arrangements for administrative support to the
secretariat of the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (General Assembly
resolution 50/115)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Executive Secretary of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change on the results
of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention
(draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.33)

(d) International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on progress made in
the implementation of General Assembly resolution
50/117 B

Report of the Secretary-General on the format,
substance and timing of the final event of the Decade
(draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.42)

(e) Convention on Biological Diversity

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on
Biological Diversity on the results of the Conference
of the Parties to the Convention (draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.31)

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 23

(f) Implementation of the outcome of the Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States

Documentation Progress report of the Secretary-General (draft
resolution A/C.2/51/L.35)

(g) Special session for the purpose of an overall review and appraisal of
the implementation of Agenda 21

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the special
session (draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.41)

Item 6. Operational activities for development

(a) Operational activities for development of the United Nations system

Documentation Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council

(b) Economic and technical cooperation among developing countries

Documentation Report of the High-level Committee on the Review of
Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries
(General Assembly resolution 33/134)19

Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of General Assembly resolution 50/118 on cooperation
between the United Nations and the Southern African
Development Community

Report of the Secretary-General on the state of
South-South cooperation (General Assembly resolution
50/119)

Item 7. Training and research

United Nations Institute for Training and Research

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.27/Rev.1)

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Joint Inspection Unit on training institution
programmes and activities of the United Nations
system (draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.27/Rev.1)

Item 8. Permanent sovereignty of the Palestinian people in the occupied
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and of the Arab population
in the occupied Syrian Golan over their natural resources

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.30/Rev.2

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 24

199820

Item 1. Report of the Economic and Social Council21

United Nations Population Award

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Executive Director of the United Nations
Population Fund on the United Nations Population
Award and Trust Fund (Economic and Social Council
decision 1982/112)

Public administration and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on public
administration and development (General Assembly
resolution 50/225)19

Item 2. Macroeconomic policy questions

(a) Financing of development, including net transfer of resources between
developing and developed countries

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.53

(b) Trade and development

Documentation Report of the Trade and Development Board (General
Assembly resolution 1995 (XIX))19

Note by the Secretary-General of the United Nations
transmitting the report of the Secretary-General of
the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development on the implementation of draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.25

(c) Commodities

Documentation Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development on world

                        

     20 The programme of work and documentation list for 1998 will be updated in
1997, taking into account the decisions of the General Assembly at its fifty-
first session.

     21 The list of questions and documentation under this item is only
indicative of requests for reports from the General Assembly. The list will be
finalized after the Council completes its work in 1997.

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 25

commodity trends and prospects (draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.49)

Item 3. Sectoral policy questions

(a) Industrial development cooperation

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.46

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization on best practices and lessons learned in
the field of industrial development (draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.46)

(b) Business and development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.37

Item 4. Sustainable development and international economic cooperation

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General and the Director-
General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization on the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 50/130 and draft
resolution A/C.2/51/L.45 on communication for
development programmes in the United Nations system

(a) Implementation and follow-up to major consensus agreements on
development

(i) Implementation of the commitments and policies agreed upon in the
Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular
the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Countries

    (ii) Implementation of the International Development Strategy for the
Fourth United Nations Development Decade

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the Declaration on International Economic
Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of
Economic Growth and Development of the Developing
Countries, and on the implementation of the
International Development Strategy for the Fourth
United Nations Development Decade (General Assembly
resolutions 45/199, 47/152, 48/185 and 49/92 and
draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.32)

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 26

(b) Integration of the economies in transition into the world economy

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General (General Assembly
resolutions 48/181 and 49/106 and draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.17)

(c) First United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty

Documentation No documentation requested (draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.51)

(d) Cultural development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General and the Director-
General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization on the follow-up to the
report of the World Commission on Culture and
Development (draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.34)

Item 5. Environment and sustainable development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on products harmful
to health and the environment (General Assembly
resolution 34/173)19

(a) Implementation of the decisions and recommendations of the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development

Documentation Relevant section of the report of the Economic and
Social Council on the work of the Commission on
Sustainable Development at its sixth session (General
Assembly resolution 47/191)

(b) Implementation of the outcome of the Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the plans,
programmes and projects for the sustainable
development of small island developing States that
have been implemented in response to the Programme of
Action for the Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing States (General Assembly resolution
50/116 and draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.35)

Relevant chapter of the report of the Economic and
Social Council containing the views of the Committee
for Development Planning on the report of the
Secretary-General on the vulnerability index (draft
resolution A/C.2/51/L.35)

/...



A/51/601
English
Page 27

Item 6. Operational activities for development

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on preparations for
the special session of the General Assembly to review
the achievement of the goals of the World Summit for
Children (draft resolution A/C.2/51/L.44)

(a) Triennial policy review of operational activities for development of
the United Nations system

Documentation Report of the Secretary-General on the triennial
policy review of operational activities undertaken by
the United Nations development system (General
Assembly resolution 50/120)19

Item 7. Training and research

United Nations University

Documentation Report of the Council of the United Nations
University

Report of the Secretary-General (draft resolution
A/C.2/51/L.20)

-----


