


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

 Distr.
 GENERAL

 A/51/592
 5 December 1996
 ENGLISH
 ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 85

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISRAELI PRACTICES
AFFECTING THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AND OTHER 

ARABS OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. El Walid DOUDECH (Tunisia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1996, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-first session the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian
People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories" and to allocate it to the
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 21st and 22nd meetings, on
25 and 27 November 1996 (see A/C.4/51/SR.21 and 22). The general debate on the
item took place at the 21st and 22nd meetings, on 25 and 27 November.

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 50/29 A (A/51/514);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 50/29 B (A/51/516);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 50/29 C (A/51/517);

96-35139 (E) 091296 /...



A/51/592
English
Page 2

(d) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General
Assembly resolution 50/29 D (A/51/518);

(e) Letter dated 2 April 1996 from the Chargé d'affaires a.i. of 
the Permanent Observer Mission of Palestine to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/50/915-S/1996/235);

(f) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the periodic reports of the
Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of
the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories (A/51/99 and
Add.1-3);

(g) Letter dated 27 August 1996 from the Chargé d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Observer Mission of Palestine to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/51/310);

(h) Letter dated 25 September 1996 from the Permanent Observer of
Palestine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/51/407-S/1996/786);

(i) Letter dated 26 September 1996 from the Permanent Observer of
Palestine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/51/411-S/1996/791);

(j) Letter dated 28 September 1996 from the Permanent Observer of
Palestine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/51/429-S/1996/804).

4. At the 21st meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Sri Lanka,
Chairman of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the
Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied
Territories, introduced the reports of that Committee (A/51/99 and Add.1-3) (see
A/C.4/51/SR.21).

5. At the same meeting, the Permanent Observer of Palestine to the United
Nations made a statement (see A/C.4/51/SR.21).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.19

6. At the 22nd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan,
Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Work of the Special Committee to
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian
People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories" (A/C.4/51/L.19).

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 3

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.19
by a recorded vote of 69 to 2, with 59 abstentions (see para. 19, draft
resolution I).1 The voting was as follows:2 

In favour: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cape
Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon,
Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar,
Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, 
Belgium, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakstan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay.

B. Draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.20

8. At the 22nd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan,
Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Application of the Geneva Convention

                        

     1 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Israel, the United States of America, the Russian Federation, Australia, Canada,
Argentina, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ireland (on behalf of the European
Union), Ecuador and Japan (see A/C.4/51/SR.22).

     2 Subsequently, the delegations of Venezuela and Angola informed the
Committee that had they been present at the time of the vote, they would have
voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 4

relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August 1949, to the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and
the other occupied Arab territories" (A/C.4/51/L.20).

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.20
by a recorded vote of 129 to 2, with 4 abstentions (see para. 19, draft
resolution II).1 The voting was as follows:2 

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Costa Rica, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States
of), Panama.

C. Draft resolutions A/C.4/51/L.21 and Rev.1

10. The Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled "Israeli
settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and the
occupied Syrian Golan" (A/C.4/51/L.21), submitted by Bangladesh, Brunei
Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia,
the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

11. At the 22nd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of the same sponsors, introduced a revised draft resolution
(A/C.4/51/L.21/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 5

(a) The end of the third preambular paragraph, which had read "and to the
other occupied Arab territories", was revised to read "and to the occupied
Syrian Golan";

(b) Operative paragraph 1, which had read:

"1. Reaffirms that colonial Israeli settlements in the Palestinian
territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied since
1967 are illegal and an obstacle to peace and economic and social
development";

was revised to read:

"1. Reaffirms that Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan are illegal and an
obstacle to peace and economic and social development";

(c) In operative paragraph 2, the words "to other occupied Arab
territories" were replaced by the words "to the occupied Syrian Golan";

(d) In operative paragraph 3, the word "illegal" was inserted before
"Israeli settlement activities".

12. Before the vote on draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.21/Rev.1, the representative
of Norway proposed an oral amendment to the fourth preambular paragraph, by
which the words "Aware of" would be replaced by the word "Welcoming".

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.4/51/L.21/Rev.1, as orally amended, by a recorded vote of 126 to 3, with 6
abstentions (see para. 19, draft resolution III).1 The voting was as follows:3

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru,

                        

     3 Subsequently, the delegation of Jamaica informed the Secretariat that had
it been present at the time of the vote, it would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 6

Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, Micronesia (Federated States of), United States of
America.

Abstaining: Costa Rica, Guatemala, Jamaica, Marshall Islands, Panama,
Uruguay.

D. Draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.22

14. At the 22nd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan,
Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Israeli practices affecting the human
rights of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem" (A/C.4/51/L.22).

15. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.22
by a recorded vote of 125 to 2, with 7 abstentions (see para. 19, draft
resolution IV).1 The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 7

Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Panama, Uruguay.

E. Draft resolutions A/C.4/51/L.23 and Rev.1

16. The Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled "The occupied
Syrian Golan", submitted by Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti,
Egypt, Indonesia, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, the
Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen
(A/C.4/51/L.23).

17. At the 22nd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of the same sponsors, introduced draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.23/Rev.1, by which
a new first preambular paragraph was added, which read:

"Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and
Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories".

18. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.4/51/L.23/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 127 to 1, with 6 abstentions (see
para. 19, draft resolution V).1 The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 8

Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel.

Abstaining: Costa Rica, Guatemala, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated
States of), United States of America, Uruguay.

                III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
                      DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

19. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

          Work of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices
          Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other

Arabs of the Occupied Territories

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Guided also by the principles of international humanitarian law, in
particular the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,4 as well as international standards of human
rights, in particular the Universal Declaration of Human Rights5 and the
International Covenants on Human Rights,6

Recalling its relevant resolutions, including resolution 2443 (XXIII) of
19 December 1968, and relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights,

Recalling also relevant resolutions of the Security Council,

Aware of the lasting impact of the uprising (intifadah) of the Palestinian
people,

Convinced that occupation itself represents a primary violation of human
rights,

                        

     4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.

     5 Resolution 217 A (III).

     6 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 9

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories7 and the relevant reports of the Secretary-
General,8

Noting the signing of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-
Government Arrangements by the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization in Washington on 13 September 1993,9 as well as the subsequent
implementation agreements, including the Interim Agreement on the West Bank and
the Gaza Strip signed in Washington on 28 September 1995,

Expressing the hope that, with the progress of the peace process, the
Israeli occupation will be brought to an end and therefore violation of the
human rights of the Palestinian people will cease,

1. Commends the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices
Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and other Arabs of the
Occupied Territories for its efforts in performing the tasks assigned to it by
the General Assembly and for its impartiality;

2. Demands that Israel cooperate with the Special Committee in
implementing its mandate;

3. Deplores those policies and practices of Israel which violate the
human rights of the Palestinian people and other Arabs of the occupied
territories, as reflected in the reports of the Special Committee covering the
reporting period;

4. Expresses concern over the recent deterioration of the situation in
the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, as a result of Israeli
practices and measures and the impasse facing the Middle East peace process;

5. Requests the Special Committee, pending complete termination of the
Israeli occupation, to continue to investigate Israeli policies and practices in
the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, especially Israeli lack of compliance
with the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, and to consult, as
appropriate, with the International Committee of the Red Cross according to its
regulations in order to ensure that the welfare and human rights of the peoples
of the occupied territories are safeguarded and to report to the Secretary-
General as soon as possible and whenever the need arises thereafter;

                        

     7 See A/51/99 and Add.1-3.

     8 A/51/514 and A/51/516 to A/51/518.

     9 A/48/486-S/26560, annex.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 10

6. Also requests the Special Committee to submit regularly to the
Secretary-General periodic reports on the current situation in the occupied
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem;

7. Further requests the Special Committee to continue to investigate the
treatment of prisoners in the occupied Palestinian territory, including
Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967;

8. Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To provide all necessary facilities to the Special Committee,
including those required for its visits to the occupied territories, so that it
may investigate the Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present
resolution;

(b) To continue to make available such additional staff as may be
necessary to assist the Special Committee in the performance of its tasks;

(c) To circulate regularly to Member States the periodic reports mentioned
in paragraph 6 above;

(d) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special
Committee and of information regarding its activities and findings, by all means
available, through the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat and,
where necessary to reprint those reports of the Special Committee that are no
longer available;

(e) To report to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session on the
tasks entrusted to him in the present resolution;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories".

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

                Applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to
                the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War,
                of 12 August 1949, to the occupied Palestinian
                territory, including Jerusalem, and the other

occupied Arab territories

The General Assembly,

Recalling its relevant resolutions,

Bearing in mind the relevant resolutions of the Security Council,

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and other

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 11

Arabs of the Occupied Territories7 and the relevant reports of the Secretary-
General,8 

Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising from
the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments and rules of
international law is among the basic purposes and principles of the United
Nations,

Stressing that Israel, the occupying Power, should comply strictly with its
obligations under international law,

1. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,4 is applicable to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967;

2. Demands that Israel accept the de jure applicability of the Convention
in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, and that it comply scrupulously with
the provisions of the Convention;

3. Calls upon all States parties to the Convention, in accordance with
article 1 common to the four Geneva Conventions,10 to exert all efforts in order
to ensure respect for its provisions by Israel, the occupying Power in the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and the occupied Syrian Golan

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, and
affirming the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force,

Recalling its relevant resolutions, as well as relevant Security Council
resolutions, including resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967, 446 (1979) of
22 March 1979, 465 (1980) of 1 March 1980 and 497 (1981) of 17 December 1981,

Reaffirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,4 to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and to the occupied Syrian
Golan,

                        

     10 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 12

Welcoming the Middle East peace process started at Madrid and the
agreements reached between the parties, in particular the Declaration of
Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements of 13 September 19939 and the
Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of 28 September 1995,

Expressing grave concern over the decision of the Government of Israel to
resume settlement activities in violation of international humanitarian law,
relevant United Nations resolutions and the agreements reached between the
parties,

Gravely concerned in particular about the dangerous situation resulting
from actions taken by the illegal armed Israeli settlers in the occupied
territory, as illustrated by the massacre of Palestinian worshippers by an
illegal Israeli settler in Al-Khalil on 25 February 1994,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,11

1. Reaffirms that Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territory,
including Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan are illegal and an
obstacle to peace and economic and social development;

2. Calls upon Israel to accept the de jure applicability of the Geneva
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August 1949,4 to the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and
to the occupied Syrian Golan and to abide scrupulously by the provisions of the
Convention, in particular article 49;

3. Demands complete cessation of all illegal Israeli settlement
activities;

4. Stresses the need for full implementation of Security Council
resolution 904 (1994) of 18 March 1994, in which, among other things, the
Council called upon Israel, the occupying Power, to continue to take and
implement measures, including, inter alia, confiscation of arms, with the aim of
preventing illegal acts of violence by Israeli settlers, and called for measures
to be taken to guarantee the safety and protection of the Palestinian civilians
in the occupied territory.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

                Israeli practices affecting the human rights of the
                Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian

territory, including Jerusalem

The General Assembly,

Recalling its relevant resolutions and the resolutions of the Commission on
Human Rights,

                        

     11 A/51/517.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 13

Bearing in mind the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the most
recent of which are resolutions 904 (1994) of 18 March 1994 and 1073 (1996) of
28 September 1996,

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories7 and the reports of the Secretary-General,8 

Aware of the responsibility of the international community to promote human
rights and ensure respect for international law,

Reaffirming the principle of the inadmissibility of the acquisition of
territory by force,

Reaffirming also the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,4 to the
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and other Arab territories
occupied by Israel since 1967,

Welcoming the signing of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-
Government Arrangements by the Government of the State of Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization in Washington on 13 September 1993,9 as well
as the subsequent implementation agreements, including the Interim Agreement on
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip signed in Washington on 28 September 1995,

Noting the withdrawal of the Israeli army, which took place in the Gaza
Strip and the Jericho Area in accordance with the agreements reached between the
parties, and the initiation of the Palestinian Authority in those areas,

Noting also the redeployment of the Israeli army from six cities in the
West Bank,

Concerned about the continuing violation of the human rights of the
Palestinian people by Israel, the occupying Power, especially the use of
collective punishment, closure of areas, annexation and establishment of
settlements and the continuing actions by it designed to change the legal
status, geographical nature and demographic composition of the occupied
Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem,

Expressing its deep concern in particular over the closure by the Israeli
authorities of the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, which
prevents the freedom of movement of persons and goods and is the cause of great
economic and social hardship, in violation of the Geneva Convention relative to
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, and the
agreements reached between the two sides,

Convinced of the positive impact of a temporary international or foreign
presence in the occupied Palestinian territory for the safety and protection of
the Palestinian people,

Expressing its appreciation to the countries that participated in the
Temporary International Presence in Hebron for their positive contribution,

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 14

Convinced of the need for the full implementation of Security Council
resolutions 904 (1994) and 1073 (1996),

1. Determines that all measures and actions taken by Israel, the
occupying Power, in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, in
violation of the relevant provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, and contrary
to the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, are illegal and have no
validity and that such measures should cease immediately;

2. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, cease all practices and
actions which violate the human rights of the Palestinian people;

3. Calls for an immediate end of the closure and the assurance of the
freedom of movement of persons and goods within the Palestinian territory and
with the outside world in conformity with international law and the agreements
reached;

4. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to accelerate the release of
all remaining Palestinians arbitrarily detained or imprisoned, in line with
agreements reached;

5. Calls for complete respect by Israel, the occupying Power, of all
fundamental freedoms of the Palestinian people, pending the extension of the
self-government arrangements to the rest of the occupied territory;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

The occupied Syrian Golan

The General Assembly,

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and other
Arabs of the Occupied Territories,12

Deeply concerned that the Syrian Golan occupied since 1967 has been under
continued Israeli military occupation,

Recalling Security Council resolution 497 (1981) of 17 December 1981,

Recalling also its previous relevant resolutions, the last of which was
50/29 D of 6 December 1995,

                        

     12 The most recent report is contained in documents A/51/99/Add.2 and 3.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 15

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of 17 October 1996,13

Recalling further its previous relevant resolutions in which, inter alia,
it called upon Israel to put an end to its occupation of the Arab territories,

Reaffirming once more the illegality of the decision of 14 December 1981
taken by Israel to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the
occupied Syrian Golan, which has resulted in the effective annexation of that
territory,

Reaffirming that the acquisition of territory by force is inadmissible
under the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming also the applicability of the Geneva Convention elative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,4 to the
occupied Syrian Golan,

Bearing in mind Security Council resolution 237 (1967) of 14 June 1967,

Welcoming the convening at Madrid of the Peace Conference on the Middle
East on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967
and 338 (1973) of 22 October 1973 aimed at the realization of a just,
comprehensive and lasting peace, and stressing the need for rapid progress in
all bilateral negotiations,

1. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply with the relevant
resolutions on the occupied Syrian Golan, in particular Security Council
resolution 497 (1981), in which the Council, inter alia, decided that the
Israeli decision to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the
occupied Syrian Golan was null and void and without international legal effect,
and demanded that Israel, the occupying Power, should rescind forthwith its
decisions;

2. Also calls upon Israel to desist from changing the physical character,
demographic composition, institutional structure and legal status of the
occupied Syrian Golan and in particular to desist from the establishment of
settlements;

3. Determines that all legislative and administrative measures and
actions taken or to be taken by Israel, the occupying Power, that purport to
alter the character and legal status of the occupied Syrian Golan are null and
void, constitute a flagrant violation of international law and of the Geneva
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August 1949, and have no legal effect;

4. Further calls upon Israel to desist from imposing Israeli citizenship
and Israeli identity cards on the Syrian citizens in the occupied Syrian Golan,
and to desist from its repressive measures against the population of the
occupied Syrian Golan;

                        

     13 A/51/518.

/...



A/51/592
English
Page 16

5. Deplores the violations by Israel of the Geneva Convention relative to
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949;

6. Calls once again upon Member States not to recognize any of the
legislative or administrative measures and actions referred to above;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

-----


