





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/566/Add.12
29 November 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 72

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDING DOCUMENT OF THE
TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY:

(a) UNITED NATIONS DISARMAMENT INFORMATION PROGRAMME

(b) UNITED NATIONS DISARMAMENT FELLOWSHIP, TRAINING
AND ADVISORY SERVICES

(c) REGIONAL CONFIDENCE-BUILDING MEASURES

(d) UNITED NATIONS REGIONAL CENTRE FOR PEACE AND DISARMAMENT
IN AFRICA, UNITED NATIONS REGIONAL CENTRE FOR PEACE AND
DISARMAMENT IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC AND UNITED NATIONS
REGIONAL CENTRE FOR PEACE, DISARMAMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

(e) CONVENTION ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee (Part XIII)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Parfait-Serge ONANGA-ANYANGA (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The First Committee considered agenda item 72 jointly with all the other
items relating to disarmament and international security (for details, see
A/51/566). For the documents before the Committee under item 72, see A/51/566,
paragraph 3.

* The reports of the Committee on all the agenda items relating to
disarmament and international security (items 60, 61 and 63-80) will be issued
under the symbol A/51/566 and addenda.

96-34579 (E) 061296 /...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.8

2. At the 14th meeting of the Committee, on 4 November 1996, the
representative of Mexico, on behalf of Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica,
Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Myanmar, Nicaragua and Pakistan, introduced
a draft resolution entitled "United Nations Disarmament Information Programme"
(A/C.1/51/L.8). Subsequently, Kenya, South Africa and Sri Lanka joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

3. At its 23rd meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.8 without a vote (see para. 19, draft resolution A).

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.10

4. At the 15th meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Mongolia, on
behalf of Cambodia, Indonesia, Japan, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the
Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, the Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka and
Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled "United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific" (A/C.1/51/L.10).
Subsequently, Australia, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Malaysia, New Zealand,
the Philippines and Thailand joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

5. At its 23rd meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.10 without a vote (see para. 19, draft resolution B).

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.15

6. At the 15th meeting, on 6 November, the representative of the Congo, on
behalf of the States members of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee
on Security Questions in Central Africa, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Regional confidence-building measures" (A/C.1/51/L.15).

7. On 13 November, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of
the General Assembly, the Secretary-General submitted a statement
(A/C.1/51/L.52) of the programme budget implications of draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.15.

8. At the 22nd meeting, on 14 November, the representative of the Congo orally
revised operative paragraph 14 of the draft resolution by replacing the words
"Reiterates its appeal" with the word "Appeals".

9. At its 24th meeting, On 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.15, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 19, draft
resolution C).

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 3

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.19 and Rev.1

10. At the 14th meeting, on 4 November, the representative of India, on behalf
of Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Haiti,
India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, the Sudan
and Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons" (A/C.1/51/L.19).

11. On 1 November, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/51/L.19/Rev.1), submitted by the same sponsors and El Salvador, which
contained the following change: in the fifth preambular paragraph of the annex,
the words "leading to their ultimate" were added before the word "destruction".

12. Subsequently, Bangladesh, Lesotho and Malaysia joined in sponsoring the
revised draft resolution.

13. At its 19th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted revised draft
resolution A/C.1/51/L.19/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 76 to 26, with 24
abstentions (see para. 19, draft resolution D). The voting was as follows:1

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay,
Philippines, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South
Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland Italy, Latvia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Cyprus, Estonia, Georgia, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Kazakstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Liechtenstein, Malta, Marshall Islands, New

1 The representatives of Bhutan, Iran (the Islamic Republic of), Nigeria,
Panama, Peru, Sri Lanka and Yemen subsequently indicated that they had intended
to vote in favour and the delegation of Slovakia indicated that it had intended
to vote against the draft resolution.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 4

Zealand, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian
Federation, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Ukraine.

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.26 and Rev.1

14. At the 17th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Togo, on behalf
of the members of the Group of African States, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa"
(A/C.1/51/L.26).

15. On 6 November, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/51/L.26/Rev.1) submitted by the same sponsors, which contained the
following changes:

(a) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the words "regional centre" were
replaced with the words "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa";

(b) In the sixth and seventh preambular paragraphs and operative
paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 the word "Regional" was added before the word "Centre".

16. At its 23rd meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted revised
draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.26/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 19, draft
resolution E).

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.32

17. At the 17th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Nigeria, on
behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Japan, Myanmar, New Zealand, Nicaragua, the Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, South Africa, Togo, the United Republic of Tanzania and Viet Nam,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "United Nations disarmament fellowship,
training and advisory services" (A/C.1/51/L.32). Subsequently, Australia,
Bangladesh, Botswana, China, the Congo, Guatemala, Kenya, Liberia, Mongolia, the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Thailand and Zaire joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

18. At its 23rd meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.32 without a vote (see para. 19, draft resolution F).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

19. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 5

A

Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly: United

Nations Disarmament Information Programme

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision taken in 1982 at its twelfth special session, the
second special session devoted to disarmament, by which the World Disarmament
Campaign was launched,2

Bearing in mind its various resolutions on the subject, including
resolution 47/53 D of 9 December 1992, in which it decided, inter alia, that the
World Disarmament Campaign should be known thereafter as the "United Nations
Disarmament Information Programme" and the World Disarmament Campaign Voluntary
Trust Fund as the "Voluntary Trust Fund for the United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme",

Recalling its resolution 49/76 A of 15 December 1994,

Having examined the report of the Secretary-General of 19 July 1996 on the
United Nations Disarmament Information Programme,3

Deeply concerned by the continuing decrease of contributions to the
Programme, which has already affected a number of activities, beginning with the
suspension in the current year of publications such as the Newsletter and the
Topical Papers,

1. Takes note with concern of the report of the Secretary-General of
19 July 1996 on the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;3

2. Commends the Secretary-General for his efforts to make effective use
of the limited resources available to him in disseminating as widely as possible
information on arms limitation and disarmament to Governments, the media,
non-governmental organizations, educational communities and research institutes,
and in carrying out a seminar and conference programme;

3. Stresses the importance of the Programme, as a significant instrument
in enabling developing countries to participate fully in the deliberations and
negotiations on disarmament in the various United Nations bodies;

4. Notes with appreciation the contributions to the efforts of the
Programme by the United Nations information centres and the regional centres for
disarmament;

2 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, paras. 110 and 111.

3 A/51/219.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 6

5. Recommends that the Programme focus its efforts:

(a) To inform, to educate and to generate public understanding of the
importance of and support for multilateral action, including action by the
United Nations and the Conference on Disarmament, in the field of arms
limitation and disarmament, in a factual, balanced and objective manner, in
particular through the continuing publication in all official languages of The
United Nations Disarmament Yearbook and the Disarmament Periodical, and the
updating of the Status of Multilateral Arms Regulation and Disarmament
Agreements;

(b) To facilitate unimpeded access to and an exchange of information on
ideas between the public sector and public interest groups and organizations,
and to provide an independent source of balanced and factual information that
takes into account a range of views to help further an informed debate on arms
limitation, disarmament and security;

(c) To organize meetings to facilitate exchanges of views and information
between governmental and non-governmental sectors and between governmental and
other experts in order to facilitate the search for common ground;

6. Invites all Member States to contribute to the Voluntary Trust Fund
for the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;

7. Commends the Secretary-General for supporting the efforts of
universities, other academic institutions and non-governmental organizations
active in the educational field in widening the worldwide availability of
disarmament education, and invites him to continue to support and cooperate,
without cost to the regular budget of the United Nations, with educational
institutions and non-governmental organizations engaged in such efforts;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its fifty-third session a report covering both the implementation of the
activities of the Programme by the United Nations system during the previous two
years and the activities of the Programme contemplated by the system for the
following two years;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third
session the item entitled "United Nations Disarmament Information Programme".

B

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia and the Pacific

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 42/39 D of 30 November 1987 and 44/117 F of
15 December 1989, by which it established and renamed the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, with
headquarters at Kathmandu and with the mandate of providing, on request,
substantive support for the initiatives and other activities mutually agreed

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 7

upon by the Member States of the Asia-Pacific region for the implementation of
measures for peace and disarmament, through appropriate utilization of available
resources,

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General,4 in which he expresses his
belief that the mandate of the Regional Centre not only remains valid but is
even more relevant today in the changed international environment,

Commending the useful activities carried out by the Regional Centre in
encouraging regional and subregional dialogue for the enhancement of openness,
transparency and confidence-building, as well as the promotion of disarmament
and security through the organization of regional meetings, which has come to be
widely known within the Asia-Pacific region as the "Kathmandu process",

Noting that trends in the post-cold-war era have emphasized the function of
the Regional Centre in assisting Member States as they deal with new security
concerns and disarmament issues emerging in the region,

Recognizing the need for the Regional Centre to pursue effectively its
expanded function,

Expressing its appreciation to the Regional Centre for its organization of
substantive regional meetings at Kathmandu and at Hiroshima, Japan, in 1996,

Appreciating highly the important role Nepal has played as the host nation
of the headquarters of the Regional Centre,

1. Reaffirms its resolution 50/71 D of 12 December 1995, in particular
its strong support for the continued operation and further strengthening of the
United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific
as an essential promoter of the regional peace and disarmament dialogue in the
Asia-Pacific region known as the "Kathmandu process";

2. Expresses its appreciation for the political support and financial
contribution received by the Regional Centre;

3. Appeals to Member States, in particular those within the Asia-Pacific
region, as well as to international governmental and non-governmental
organizations and foundations, to make voluntary contributions in order to
strengthen the programme of activities of the Regional Centre and its
implementation;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary support,
within existing resources, to the Regional Centre in carrying out its programme
of activities;

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
at its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution;

4 A/51/445.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 8

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session the item entitled "United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific".

C

Regional confidence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

Bearing in mind the guidelines for general and complete disarmament adopted
at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to disarmament,

Recalling its resolutions 43/78 H and 43/85 of 7 December 1988, 44/21 of
15 November 1989, 45/58 M of 4 December 1990, 46/37 B of 6 December 1991,
47/53 F of 15 December 1992, 48/76 A of 16 December 1993, 49/76 C of
15 December 1994 and 50/71 B of 12 December 1995,

Considering the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building
measures taken at the initiative and with the participation of all States
concerned and taking into account the specific characteristics of each region,
in that they can contribute to regional disarmament and to international
security, in accordance with the principles of the Charter,

Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional
disarmament, can be devoted to economic and social development and to the
protection of the environment for the benefit of all peoples, in particular
those of the developing countries,

Convinced also that development can be achieved only in a climate of peace,
security and mutual confidence both within and among States,

Bearing in mind the establishment by the Secretary-General on 28 May 1992
of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in
Central Africa, the purpose of which is to encourage arms limitation,
disarmament, non-proliferation and development in the subregion,

Recalling the Brazzaville Declaration on Cooperation for Peace and Security
in Central Africa,5

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on regional
confidence-building measures,6 which deals with the activities of the United

5 A/50/474, annex I.

6 A/51/287.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 9

Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa in
the period since the adoption by the General Assembly of resolution 50/71 B;

2. Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-
building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to ease tensions
and conflicts in the subregion and to further disarmament, non-proliferation and
the peaceful settlement of disputes in Central Africa;

3. Also reaffirms its support for the programme of work of the Standing
Advisory Committee adopted at the organizational meeting of the Committee held
at Yaoundé in July 1992;

4. Welcomes the fact that the Committee’s programme of work has led to
specific actions and measures promoting confidence-building and security in the
Central African subregion;

5. Notes the holding of the First Summit of Heads of State and Government
of Countries Members of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on
Security Questions in Central Africa, at Yaoundé on 8 July 1996;

6. Welcomes with great satisfaction the signature at that Summit of the
Non-Aggression Pact between the States members of the United Nations Standing
Advisory Committee, and reaffirms its conviction that the Pact is likely to
contribute to the prevention of conflicts and further confidence-building in the
Central African subregion;

7. Invites the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee that
have not yet signed the Pact to do so, and encourages all member States to
expedite ratification so that it may enter into force as soon as possible;

8. Welcomes with satisfaction the Final Declaration of the Summit of the
Standing Advisory Committee,7 which aims at the implementation of the following
measures:

(a) The promotion of participatory systems of governance as a means of
preventing conflicts;

(b) The organization, under United Nations auspices, of training seminars
for officers in the armed forces, republican guard, gendarmerie and police
forces of the Central African States, in order to promote a culture of peace by
explaining, once again, their role in a democratic context;

(c) The development of a programme to combat illicit arms trafficking, in
order to remove this source of insecurity and a threat to the stability of
States in the subregion;

(d) The setting-up, under United Nations auspices, of an early warning
system as the basic instrument for preventive diplomacy in Central Africa;

7 A/51/274-S/1996/631, annex.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 10

(e) The strengthening of cooperation between States of the subregion and
bilateral and multilateral partners on the question of peace and security in
Central Africa;

9. Expresses its conviction that the democratic process offers a valuable
means to build confidence, promote development and prevent conflicts, and
welcomes with satisfaction the decision taken by the States members of the
Standing Advisory Committee to hold a subregional conference at Brazzaville in
January 1997 on the topic "Democratic institutions and peace in Central Africa";

10. Welcomes the holding, under United Nations auspices, of the first
training seminar for instructors in peace operations, at Yaoundé from 9 to
17 September 1996, with a view to strengthening the capacity of the units
specializing in peace operations in the armed forces of the States members of
the Standing Advisory Committee;

11. Expresses its gratitude to those Governments which responded
favourably to the request from the General Assembly and contributed towards
financing the aforementioned training seminar;

12. Emphasizes once again the importance of continuing with this training
programme in order to strengthen the participation of States members of the
Standing Advisory Committee in future United Nations peace operations;

13. Commends the Secretary-General for having established the Trust Fund
for the Standing Advisory Committee;

14. Appeals to Member States and governmental and non-governmental
organizations to make additional voluntary contributions to the Fund for the
implementation of the programme of work of the Committee, in particular the
measures and objectives referred to in paragraphs 8, 9 and 12 of the present
resolution;

15. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide assistance to
the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee to ensure that they are
able to carry on with their efforts;

16. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its fifty-second session a report on the implementation of the present
resolution;

17. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session the item entitled "Regional confidence-building measures".

D

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly,

Convinced that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious threat to
the survival of mankind,

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 11

Bearing in mind the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice
of 8 July 1996 on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons,8

Convinced that a multilateral, universal and binding agreement prohibiting
the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons would contribute to the elimination
of the nuclear threat and to the climate for negotiations leading to the
ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons, thereby strengthening international
peace and security,

Conscious that some steps taken by the Russian Federation and the United
States of America towards a reduction of their nuclear weapons and the
improvement in the international climate can contribute towards the goal of the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly,9 it is stated that all States should actively
participate in efforts to bring about conditions in international relations
among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of nations in international
affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared in its
resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 B of 14 December 1978, 34/83 G
of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 I of
9 December 1981,

Determined to achieve an international convention prohibiting the
development, production, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons leading to their
ultimate destruction,

Stressing that an international convention on the prohibition of the use of
nuclear weapons would be an important step in a phased programme towards the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons within a time-bound framework,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its 1996
session, was unable to undertake negotiations on this subject as called for in
General Assembly resolution 50/71 E of 12 December 1995,

1. Reiterates its request to the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiations, in order to reach agreement on an international convention
prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons under any circumstances,
taking as a possible basis the draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of
Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolution;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly on the results of those negotiations.

8 A/51/218, annex.

9 Resolution S-10/2.



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 12

ANNEX

Draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of
Nuclear Weapons

The States Parties to the present Convention,

Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the
existence of nuclear weapons,

Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

Desiring to achieve a multilateral, universal and binding agreement
prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Bearing in mind the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice
that there exists an obligation of all States to pursue in good faith and bring
to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects
under strict and effective international control,

Determined, therefore, to achieve an international convention prohibiting
the development, production, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons leading to
their ultimate destruction,

Convinced that the present Convention would be an important step in a
phased programme towards the complete elimination of nuclear weapons within a
timebound framework,

Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Have agreed as follows:

Article 1

The States Parties to the present Convention solemnly undertake not to use
or threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

Article 2

This Convention shall be of unlimited duration.

Article 3

1. The present Convention shall be open to all States for signature. Any
State that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in
accordance with paragraph 3 of the present article may accede to it at any time.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 13

2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory
States. Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.

3. The present Convention shall enter into force on the deposit of
instruments of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the
Governments of the five nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with paragraph 2 of
the present article.

4. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of the Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

5. The depositary shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding States
of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument of
ratification or accession and the date of entry into force of this Convention,
as well as of the receipt of other notices.

6. The present Convention shall be registered by the depositary in
accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

Article 4

The present Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French,
Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send duly certified copies
thereof to the Governments of the signatory and acceding States.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed the present Convention, opened for signature
at on the day of one thousand nine
hundred and .

E

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Africa

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41/60 D of
3 December 1986, 42/39 J of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 D of 7 December 1988 on
the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, and
46/36 F of 6 December 1991 and 47/52 G of 9 December 1992 on regional
disarmament, including confidence-building measures,

Reaffirming its resolutions 48/76 E of 16 December 1993, 49/76 D of
15 December 1994 and 50/71 C of 12 December 1995 on the United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa and the United Nations Regional

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 14

Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the
Caribbean,

Mindful of the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the
United Nations stipulating that a function of the General Assembly is to
consider the general principles of cooperation in the maintenance of
international peace and security, including the principles governing disarmament
and arms limitation,

Taking into account the guidelines for international arms transfers adopted
by the Disarmament Commission at its 1996 substantive session,10

Welcoming the activities carried out by the United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, which have contributed substantially to
understanding and cooperation among the African States and have thereby
strengthened its role in the areas of peace, disarmament, security and
development,

Bearing in mind the financial situation of the Regional Centre as described
by the Secretary-General in his report on the activities of the Regional
Centre,11

Underlining, therefore, the need to provide the Regional Centre with
financial stability so as to facilitate the effective planning and
implementation of its programmes of activities,

1. Expresses its gratitude to the Member States, international
governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations that have, so
far, contributed to the trust fund of the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Africa;

2. Commends the activities carried out by the Regional Centre in
identifying and broadening the understanding of pressing disarmament and
security issues in the African region;

3. Reaffirms its support for the further operation and strengthening of
the Regional Centre, and encourages it to continue to intensify its efforts in
promoting cooperation with subregional and regional organizations, as well as
among the African States, in order to facilitate the development of effective
measures of confidence-building, arms limitation and disarmament, with a view to
promoting peace and security;

4. Appeals once again to Member States, mainly to African countries, as
well as to international governmental and non-governmental organizations and
foundations, to make regular and appropriate voluntary contributions in order to

10 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement
No. 42 (A/51/42), annex I.

11 A/51/403.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 15

revitalize the Regional Centre, strengthen its programmes of activities and
facilitate the effective implementation of such programmes;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in the light of the current financial
situation of the Regional Centre, to intensify his efforts in exploring new ways
and means of funding, and to continue to provide all necessary support to the
Regional Centre for better achievements and results;

6. Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Director of the
Regional Centre is, as far as possible and within existing resources, locally
based in order to revitalize the activities of the Regional Centre;

7. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-third session, under the item entitled "Review and
implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the
General Assembly", on the activities of the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Africa, and on the implementation of the present
resolution.

F

United Nations disarmament fellowship, training
and advisory services

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly,12 the first special session
devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowships on disarmament,
as well as its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly,13 the second special session
devoted to disarmament, in which it decided, inter alia, to continue the
programme,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme has already trained an
appreciable number of public officials selected from geographical regions
represented in the United Nations system, most of whom are now in positions of
responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs in their respective countries
or Governments,

Recalling all the annual resolutions on the matter since the thirty-seventh
session of the General Assembly, in 1982, including resolution 50/71 A of
12 December 1995,

12 Resolution S-10/2.

13 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9-13, document A/S-12/32.

/...



A/51/566/Add.12
English
Page 16

Noting with satisfaction that the programme, as designed, continues to
enable an increased number of public officials, in particular from the
developing countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of disarmament,

Believing that the forms of assistance available to Member States, in
particular to developing countries, under the programme will enhance the
capabilities to their officials to follow ongoing deliberations and negotiations
on disarmament, both bilateral and multilateral,

1. Reaffirms its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly13 and the report
of the Secretary-General14 approved by the General Assembly in its resolution
33/71 E of 14 December 1978;

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Germany and Japan for
inviting the 1996 fellows to study selected activities in the field of
disarmament, thereby contributing to the fulfilment of the overall objectives of
the programme;

3. Commends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the
programme has continued to be carried out;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to implement annually the
Geneva-based programme within existing resources and to report thereon to the
General Assembly at its fifty-third session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third
session the item entitled "United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and
advisory services".

-----

14 A/33/305.


