





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/597
25 November 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fifty-first session
Agenda items 90 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES
BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND THE INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. El Walid DOUDECH (Tunisia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1996, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-first session the following items:

"90. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations.

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council".

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Special Political
and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) agenda item 90, together with
chapter V (sect. C) of the report of the Economic and Social Council
(A/51/3 (Parts I to III)),1 which relates to the item.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October 1996, the Fourth Committee decided to hold
a general debate covering agenda items 19, 88, 89, 90 and 12, and 91, on the

1 To be issued in final form as Official Records of the General Assembly,
Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/51/3/Rev.1).

96-33852 (E) 021296 /...



A/51/597
English
Page 2

understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would
be considered separately. The general debate took place at the 2nd to 5th
meetings, on 1, 7, 9 and 10 October.

3. The Committee considered items 90 and 12 at its 2nd to 5th and 20th
meetings, on 1, 7, 9 and 10 October and 22 November 1996 (see A/C.4/51/SR.2-5
and 20).

4. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (A/51/23 (Part IV),
chap. VII);2

(b) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraph 16
of General Assembly resolution 50/34 of 6 December 1995 (A/51/212);

(c) Report of the Chairman of the Special Committee (A/AC.109/L.1853).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

5. At the 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee
during 1996 and drew attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee
relating to item 90 (A/51/23 (Part IV)) containing, inter alia, the related
draft resolution submitted by the Special Committee for the consideration of the
Fourth Committee.

6. At its 20th meeting, on 22 November, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 16 of chapter VII of the report of the Special
Committee (A/51/23 (Part IV)), by a recorded vote of 62 to 2, with 39
abstentions (see para. 8). The voting was as follows:3

2 To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-
first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/51/23).

3 Subsequently, the delegation of Papua New Guinea informed the Secretariat
that it had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution, and the
delegations of Belgium and the Russian Federation that they had intended to
abstain. The delegations of Algeria, Colombia, Eritrea, Maldives, New Zealand,
Saint Lucia, Sierra Leone, Peru, the United Arab Emirates and Zambia informed
the Secretariat that, had they been present at the time of the voting, they
would have voted in favour of the draft resolution, and the delegations of
Azerbaijan, Greece, Kazakstan and Slovakia informed the Secretariat that, had
they been present at the time of the voting, they would have abstained.

/...



A/51/597
English
Page 3

In favour: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain,
Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Cambodia, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji,
Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, South
Africa, Sudan, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Zimbabwe.

Against: Belgium, Papua New Guinea.

Abstaining: Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall Islands,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Morocco, Netherlands,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

7. At the same meeting, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of the
European Union, made a statement.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND DECOLONIZATION
COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

8. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
by the specialized agencies and the international
institutions associated with the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations",

/...



A/51/597
English
Page 4

Having also considered the reports submitted on the item by the Secretary-
General4 and the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard
to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples,5

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item,6

Recalling its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of
15 December 1960, and resolutions of the Special Committee, as well as other
relevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity, the South Pacific Forum and the Caribbean
Community,

Conscious of the need to facilitate the implementation of the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples contained in
its resolution 1514 (XV),

Noting that the large majority of the remaining Non-Self-Governing
Territories are small island Territories,

Welcoming the assistance extended to Non-Self-Governing Territories by
certain specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme,

Stressing that, because the development options of small island Non-Self-
Governing Territories are limited, there are special challenges to planning for
and implementing sustainable development and that those Territories will be
constrained in meeting the challenges without the continued cooperation and
assistance of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system,

Stressing also the importance of securing necessary resources for funding
expanded assistance programmes for the peoples concerned and the need to enlist
the support of all major funding institutions within the United Nations system
in that regard,

Reaffirming the mandates of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to take all the appropriate measures,

4 A/51/212.

5 A/AC.109/L.1853.

6 A/51/23 (Part IV), chap. VII.

/...



A/51/597
English
Page 5

within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full implementation
of resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions,

Expressing its appreciation to the Organization of African Unity, the South
Pacific Forum and the Caribbean Community, as well as other regional
organizations, for the continued cooperation and assistance they have extended
to the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system
in this regard,

Expressing its conviction that closer contacts and consultations between
and among the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system and regional organizations help to facilitate the effective formulation
of assistance programmes to the peoples concerned,

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the
activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions
relating to decolonization,

Bearing in mind the extremely fragile economies of the Non-Self-Governing
small island Territories and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such as
hurricanes, cyclones and sea-level rise, and recalling its relevant resolutions,

Recalling its resolution 50/34 of 6 December 1995 on the implementation of
the Declaration by the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations,

1. Takes note of the report of the Chairman of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples on his consultations
with the President of the Economic and Social Council5 and endorses the
observations and suggestions arising therefrom;7

2. Recommends that all States intensify their efforts in the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to ensure
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

3. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organizations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute to the
implementation of the Declaration and all other relevant General Assembly
resolutions;

4. Reaffirms also that the recognition by the General Assembly and other
United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the aspiration of the peoples of
Non-Self-Governing Territories to exercise their right to self-determination
entails, as a corollary, the extension of all appropriate assistance to those
peoples;

7 See E/1996/85.

/...



A/51/597
English
Page 6

5. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system that have continued to cooperate with
the United Nations and the regional and subregional organizations in the
implementation of resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the
United Nations;

6. Requests the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations, as well as regional organizations, to
examine and review conditions in each Territory so as to take appropriate
measures to accelerate progress in the economic and social sectors of the
Territories and strengthen existing measures of support, and, in that regard, to
formulate appropriate programmes of assistance to the remaining Non-Self-
Governing Territories, within the framework of their respective mandates;

7. Recommends that the executive heads of the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations system formulate, with the active
cooperation of the regional organizations concerned, concrete proposals for the
full implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and submit
the proposals to their governing and legislative organs;

8. Also recommends that the specialized agencies and other organizations
of the United Nations system continue to review at the regular meetings of their
governing bodies the implementation of resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations;

9. Welcomes the continuing initiative exercised by the United Nations
Development Programme in maintaining close liaison among the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations and in providing
assistance to the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories;

10. Encourages Non-Self-Governing Territories to take steps to establish
and/or strengthen disaster preparedness and management institutions and
policies;

11. Requests the administering Powers concerned to facilitate the
participation of appointed and elected representatives of Non-Self-Governing
Territories in the relevant meetings and conferences of the specialized agencies
and other organizations of the United Nations system so that the Territories may
benefit from the related activities of those agencies and organizations;

12. Recommends that all Governments intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system of
which they are members to ensure the full and effective implementation of
resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations and,
in that connection, accord priority to the question of providing assistance to
the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the
assistance of those agencies and organizations, a report on the action taken in

/...



A/51/597
English
Page 7

implementation of the relevant resolutions, including the present resolution,
since the circulation of his previous report;

14. Commends the Economic and Social Council for its debate8 and its
resolution 1996/37 of 26 July 1996 on this issue, and requests it to continue to
consider, in consultation with the Special Committee, appropriate measures for
coordination of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations system in implementing the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly;

15. Requests the specialized agencies to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the implementation of the present resolution;

16. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to
the governing bodies of the appropriate specialized agencies and international
institutions associated with the United Nations so that those bodies take the
necessary measures to implement the resolution, and also requests the Secretary-
General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session on the
implementation of the present resolution;

17. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question and
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session.

-----

8 See E/1996/SR.44.


