





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/566/Add.1
29 November 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 60

PROHIBITION OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURE OF NEW TYPES OF
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND NEW SYSTEMS OF SUCH WEAPONS:

REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE ON DISARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee (Part II)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Parfait-Serge ONANGA-ANYANGA (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The First Committee considered agenda item 60 jointly with all the other
items relating to disarmament and international security (for details, see
A/51/566). For the documents before the Committee under item 60, see A/51/566,
paragraph 3.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/51/L.36

2. At the 14th meeting of the Committee, on 4 November 1996, the
representative of Belarus, on behalf of Afghanistan, Armenia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, the Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy,
Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan, Luxembourg, Mongolia, the Netherlands, the Russian
Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Tajikistan, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay and Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of the
development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new
systems of such weapons: report of the Conference on Disarmament"
(A/C.1/51/L.36). Subsequently, Bangladesh, Chile, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia,

* The reports of the Committee on all the agenda items relating to
disarmament and international security (items 60, 61 and 63-81) will be issued
under the symbol A/51/566 and addenda.

96-34519 (E) 031296 /...



A/51/566/Add.1
English
Page 2

Iceland, Lithuania, Nigeria and Sri Lanka joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

3. At its 19th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.36 without a vote (see para. 4).

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

4. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of
weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons:

report of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the prohibition of the development
and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of
such weapons,

Taking note of paragraph 77 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly,1

Determined to prevent the emergence of new types of weapons of mass
destruction that have characteristics comparable in destructive effect to those
of weapons of mass destruction identified in the definition of weapons of mass
destruction adopted by the United Nations in 1948,

Noting that the item entitled "New types of weapons of mass destruction and
new systems of such weapons: radiological weapons" was considered in the
Conference on Disarmament during its 1994, 1995 and 1996 sessions,

Also noting the desirability of keeping the matter under review, as
appropriate,

1. Reaffirms that effective measures should be taken to prevent the
emergence of new types of weapons of mass destruction;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament, without prejudice to further
overview of its agenda, to keep the matter under review, as appropriate, with a
view to making, when necessary, recommendations on undertaking specific
negotiations on identified types of such weapons;

3. Calls upon all States, immediately following any recommendation of the
Conference on Disarmament, to give favourable consideration to those
recommendations;

1 Resolution S-10/2.

/...



A/51/566/Add.1
English
Page 3

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this item by the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

5. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to report the results of
any consideration of the matter in its annual reports to the General Assembly;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fourth
session the item entitled "Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new
types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons: report of
the Conference on Disarmament".

-----


