





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/566/Add.9
29 November 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 69

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS TO
ASSURE NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON STATES AGAINST THE USE OR

THREAT OF USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee (Part X)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Parfait-Serge ONANGA-ANYANGA (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The First Committee considered agenda item 69 jointly with all the other
items relating to disarmament and international security (for details, see
A/51/566). For the documents before the Committee under item 69, see A/51/566,
paragraph 3.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/51/L.30

2. At the 14th meeting of the Committee, on 4 November 1996, the
representative of Pakistan, on behalf of Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam,
Colombia, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ghana, Indonesia, the
Islamic Republic of Iran, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Myanmar,
Pakistan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, the Sudan and Viet Nam, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons"
(A/C.1/51/L.30). Subsequently, Cuba, Egypt, Guatemala and Zaire joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

* The reports of the Committee on all the agenda items relating to
disarmament and international security (items 60, 61 and 63-81) will be issued
under the symbol A/51/566 and addenda.

96-34555 (E) 041296 /...

*9634555*



A/51/566/Add.9
English
Page 2

3. At its 19th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.30 by a recorded vote of 100 to none, with 43 abstentions (see
para. 4). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia,
Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

4. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear States against the use or threat of

use of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States of
the world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples,

/...



A/51/566/Add.9
English
Page 3

Convinced that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and to
the survival of civilization,

Welcoming the progress achieved in recent years in both nuclear and
conventional disarmament,

Noting that, despite recent progress in the field of nuclear disarmament,
further efforts are necessary towards the achievement of general and complete
disarmament under effective international control,

Also convinced that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of
nuclear weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

Determined strictly to abide by the relevant provisions of the Charter of
the United Nations on the non-use of force or threat of force,

Recognizing that the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of
non-nuclear-weapon States need to be safeguarded against the use or threat of
use of force, including the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal
basis, it is imperative for the international community to develop effective
measures and arrangements to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Recognizing also that effective measures and arrangements to assure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons
can contribute positively to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

Bearing in mind paragraph 59 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the Assembly,1 the first special session devoted to disarmament, in
which it urged the nuclear-weapon States to pursue efforts to conclude, as
appropriate, effective arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against
the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and desirous of promoting the
implementation of the relevant provisions of the Final Document,

Recalling the relevant parts of the special report of the Committee on
Disarmament2 submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special session,3

the second special session devoted to disarmament, and of the special report of
the Conference on Disarmament submitted to the Assembly at its fifteenth special

1 Resolution S-10/2.

2 The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Supplement No. 2 (A/S-12/2), sect. III.C.

/...



A/51/566/Add.9
English
Page 4

session,4 the third special session devoted to disarmament, as well as the
report of the Conference on its 1992 session,5

Recalling also paragraph 12 of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second
Disarmament Decade, contained in the annex to its resolution 35/46 of
3 December 1980, which states, inter alia, that all efforts should be exerted by
the Committee on Disarmament urgently to negotiate with a view to reaching
agreement on effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Noting the in-depth negotiations undertaken in the Conference on
Disarmament and its Ad Hoc Committee on Effective International Arrangements to
Assure Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of Use of Nuclear
Weapons,6 with a view to reaching agreement on this item,

Taking note of the proposals submitted under that item in the Conference on
Disarmament, including the drafts of an international convention,

Taking note also of the relevant decision of the Eleventh Conference of
Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries held at Cartagena de
Indias, Colombia, from 18 to 20 October 1995,7 and also of the decision adopted
by the Tenth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to 6 September 1992,8 as well as the relevant
recommendations of the Organization of the Islamic Conference reiterated in the
Final Communiqué of the Twentieth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held
at Istanbul from 4 to 8 August 1991,9 calling upon the Conference on Disarmament
to reach an urgent agreement on an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Taking note further of the unilateral declarations made by all nuclear-
weapon States on their policies of non-use or non-threat of use of nuclear
weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States,

Noting the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
as well as the difficulties pointed out in evolving a common approach acceptable
to all,

4 Ibid., Fifteenth Special Session, Supplement No. 2 (A/S-15/2),
sect. III.F.

5 Ibid., Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/47/27), sect. III.F.

6 Ibid., Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27), para. 39.

7 See A/50/752-S/1995/1035, annex III.

8 See A/47/675-S/24816, annex, chap. II, para. 47.

9 See A/46/486-S/23055, annex I.

/...



A/51/566/Add.9
English
Page 5

Noting also the greater willingness to overcome the difficulties
encountered in previous years,

Noting further Security Council resolution 984 (1995) of 11 April 1995 and
the views expressed on it,

Recalling its relevant resolutions adopted in previous years, in particular
resolutions 45/54 of 4 December 1990, 46/32 of 6 December 1991, 47/50 of
9 December 1992, 48/73 of 16 December 1993, 49/73 of 15 December 1994 and
50/68 of 12 December 1995,

1. Reaffirms the urgent need to reach an early agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons;

2. Notes with satisfaction that in the Conference on Disarmament there is
no objection, in principle, to the idea of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,
although the difficulties as regards evolving a common approach acceptable to
all have also been pointed out;

3. Appeals to all States, especially the nuclear-weapon States, to work
actively towards an early agreement on a common approach and, in particular, on
a common formula that could be included in an international instrument of a
legally binding character;

4. Recommends that further intensive efforts should be devoted to the
search for such a common approach or common formula and that the various
alternative approaches, including, in particular, those considered in the
Conference on Disarmament, should be further explored in order to overcome the
difficulties;

5. Recommends also that the Conference on Disarmament should actively
continue intensive negotiations with a view to reaching early agreement and
concluding effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, taking into account
the widespread support for the conclusion of an international convention and
giving consideration to any other proposals designed to secure the same
objective;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session the item entitled "Conclusion of effective international arrangements to
assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons".

-----


