





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/593
3 December 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 86

COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF THE WHOLE QUESTION OF PEACEKEEPING
OPERATIONS IN ALL THEIR ASPECTS

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. El Walid DOUDECH (Tunisia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1996, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-first session the item entitled "Comprehensive review of the whole
question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects" and to allocate it to
the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 15th to 18th and
22nd meetings, from 18 to 20 and on 27 November 1996 (see A/C.4/51/SR.15-18
and 22). The general debate on the item took place at the 15th to 18th
meetings, from 18 to 20 November.

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations (A/51/130);

(b) Letter dated 11 April 1996 from the Permanent Representative of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/51/98-S/1996/270).

4. At the 15th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Egypt, in his
capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations,
introduced the report of that Committee.

96-34780 (E) 051296 /...



A/51/593
English
Page 2

5. At the same meeting, the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping
Operations made a statement.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.4/50/L.9

6. At the 18th meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Canada, on
behalf of Argentina, Canada, Egypt, Japan, Nigeria and Poland, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Comprehensive review of the whole question of
peacekeeping operations in all their aspects" (A/C.4/51/L.9).

7. The Secretary of the Committee read out a statement prepared by the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations on the programme budget implications of
the draft resolution.

8. After hearing statements by the representatives of the United States of
America and Ireland (see A/C.4/51/SR.18), the Committee decided to postpone
action on the draft resolution to a later meeting, to allow time for
consideration of the programme budget implications.

9. At the 22nd meeting, on 27 November, the Chairman drew the attention of the
Committee to a statement of the programme budget implications of the draft
resolution (A/C.4/51/L.24).

10. At the same meeting, the representative of China proposed an oral amendment
to the draft resolution, by which operative paragraph 4 would be deleted.

11. At its 22nd meeting, on 27 November, the Committee adopted the oral
amendment to the draft resolution by a recorded vote of 125 to 3.1 The voting
was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Finland,
France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,

1 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Colombia, Egypt, Canada (also on behalf of Australia
and New Zealand) and Argentina.

/...



A/51/593
English
Page 3

Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel, Turkey, United States of America.

Abstaining: None.

12. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.9,
as amended, by a recorded vote of 135 to 2 (see para. 15, draft resolution I).2

The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

2 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of the
United States and Ireland (on behalf of the European Union).

/...



A/51/593
English
Page 4

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: None.

B. Draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.10

13. At the 18th meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Ukraine, on
behalf of Australia, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Denmark, Fiji,
Finland, France, Germany, Haiti, Honduras, Italy, Japan, Kyrgyzstan,
Liechtenstein, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, the Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Sweden, Togo,
Tunisia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the
United States of America, Uruguay and Uzbekistan, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel"
(A/C.4/51/L.10), and orally revised operative paragraph 3 by replacing the words
"within existing resources" with the words "to continue" before the words "to
take steps".

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/51/L.10,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 15, draft resolution II).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL AND
DECOLONIZATION COMMITTEE (FOURTH COMMITTEE)

15. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft
resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Comprehensive review of the whole question of
peacekeeping operations in all their aspects

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2006 (XIX) of 18 February 1965 and all other
relevant resolutions,

Recalling in particular its resolution 50/30 of 6 December 1995,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization,3

3 A/51/1; to be issued in final form as Official Records of the General
Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 1.

/...



A/51/593
English
Page 5

Welcoming the statement of 28 March 1996 by the President of the Security
Council on the arrangements for improved consultation and exchange of
information with troop-contributing countries,4

Affirming that the efforts of the United Nations in the peaceful settlement
of disputes, including through its peacekeeping operations, are indispensable,

Convinced of the need for the United Nations to continue to improve its
capabilities in the field of peacekeeping and to enhance the effective and
efficient deployment of its peacekeeping missions,

Considering the contribution that all Members of the Organization make to
peacekeeping,

Taking note of the widespread interest in contributing to the work of the
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations expressed by many Member States,
including troop-contributing countries,

Bearing in mind the continuous necessity of preserving the efficiency and
strengthening the effectiveness of the work of the Special Committee,

1. Welcomes the report of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping
Operations;5

2. Endorses the proposals, recommendations and conclusions of the Special
Committee contained in paragraphs 29 to 85 of its report;

3. Urges Member States, the Secretariat and relevant organs of the United
Nations to take all necessary steps to implement the proposals, recommendations
and conclusions of the Special Committee;

4. Decides to expand the membership of the Special Committee on
Peacekeeping Operations in accordance with the provisions of its report; those
Member States which are past or present personnel contributors to United Nations
peacekeeping operations and those which were observers at the 1996 session of
the Special Committee shall, upon request in writing to the Chairman of the
Committee, become members at its 1997 session;

5. Decides also that those Member States which become personnel
contributors to United Nations peacekeeping operations in years to come or
participate in the future in the Special Committee for three consecutive years
as observers shall, upon request in writing to the Chairman of the Committee,
become members at the following session of the Committee;

6. Decides further that the Special Committee, in accordance with its
mandate, should continue its efforts for a comprehensive review of the whole
question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects, and should review the

4 S/PRST/1996/13.

5 A/51/130.

/...



A/51/593
English
Page 6

implementation of its previous proposals and consider new proposals so as to
enhance the capacity of the United Nations to fulfil its responsibilities in
this field;

7. Requests the Special Committee to submit a report on its work to the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session the item entitled "Comprehensive review of the whole question of
peacekeeping operations in all their aspects".

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Convention on the Safety of United Nations and
Associated Personnel

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 49/59 of 9 December 1994, by which it adopted the
Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel,

Gravely concerned by the continuing attacks and acts of violence against
United Nations and associated personnel that have caused death or serious
injury,

Conscious of the need effectively to promote and protect the safety and
security of the personnel who act on behalf of the United Nations, attacks
against whom are unjustifiable and unacceptable,

Recognizing that United Nations and associated personnel, while carrying
out their activities in support of the fulfilment of the mandate of a United
Nations operation, are acting in the common interests of the international
community,

Considering that the entry into force of the Convention would strengthen
arrangements for the protection of personnel who act on behalf of the United
Nations,

Noting, however, that only a small number of States have become parties to
the Convention,

Recalling the report of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations,5

in which, in particular, the Committee called upon Member States to ratify the
Convention so as to ensure its early entry into force,

1. Welcomes all signatures, ratifications, acceptances, approvals and
accessions to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated
Personnel;

/...



A/51/593
English
Page 7

2. Urges all States that have not yet done so to consider ratifying,
accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention, to bring about the entry
into force of the Convention at the earliest possible date;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take the necessary steps
to facilitate the dissemination of information relating to the Convention and to
promote its wider appreciation;

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to inform the General Assembly at
its fifty-third session on the status of the Convention and on the steps taken
pursuant to paragraph 3 above.

-----


