


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/619/Add.2
3 December 1996

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 110 (b)

HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS: HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS,
INCLUDING ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES FOR IMPROVING 
THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND 

FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS

Report of the Third Committee (Part III)*

Rapporteur: Ms. Victoria SANDRU (Romania)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1996, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-first session the item entitled "Human rights questions: human rights
questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms" and to allocate it to the
Third Committee.

2. For the documents before the Committee under this item see A/51/619.

3. The Committee considered the item jointly with sub-items (c), (d) and (e)
at its 38th to 52nd meetings, on 14, 15, 18 to 22, 25 and 26 November 1996, and
took action on the item at its 53rd to 56th meetings, on 26, 27 and 29 November. 
An account of the Committee's discussion is contained in the relevant summary
records (A/C.3/51/SR.38-56.)

4. At the 38th meeting, on 14 November, the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights made an introductory statement.

                        

     * The report of the Committee on agenda item 110 will be issued in six
parts, under the symbol A/51/619 and Add.1-5.

96-34916 (E) 101296 /...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.36

5. At the 47th meeting, on 21 November, the representative of Cuba introduced
a draft resolution entitled "Respect for the right to universal freedom of
travel and the vital importance of family reunification" (A/C.3/51/L.36).

6. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.36 by a recorded vote of 79 to 3, with 75 abstentions (see para. 65, 
draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:1

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Eritrea, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Canada, Japan, United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland,
Italy, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Mongolia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, The former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uzbekistan.

                        

     1 The representative of Israel subsequently indicated that had he been
present he would have voted against.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 3

7. At the same meeting, after the adoption of the draft resolution, statements
were made by the representatives of the United States of America, Chile,
Venezuela, Mexico, the Philippines and Cuba (see A/C.3/51/SR.53).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.39 and Rev.1

8. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Ireland, on
behalf of Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Federated States of
Micronesia, Monaco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama,
Paraguay, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Samoa, San Marino,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Strengthening of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights" (A/C.3/51/L.39), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling, inter alia, its resolutions 48/141 of 20 December 1993 and
50/187 of 22 December 1995, and bearing in mind all relevant resolutions of
the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights, in
particular Commission resolution 1996/82 of 24 April 1996,

"Reaffirming that the promotion of universal respect for and
observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the basic
purposes of the United Nations enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations and a priority activity of the Organization,

"Recalling that in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action the
World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,
stressed the importance of strengthening the Centre for Human Rights of the
Secretariat,

"Taking into account that in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action the World Conference on Human Rights requested the Secretary-General
and the General Assembly to take immediate steps to increase substantially
the resources for the human rights programme, from within the existing and
future regular budgets of the United Nations, and to take urgent steps to
seek increased extrabudgetary resources,

"Taking into account also the establishment of the post of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the mandate for the
post, including its coordinating role and its overall supervision of the
Centre, as well as the request by the General Assembly in resolution 48/141
for appropriate staff and resources to enable the High Commissioner to
fulfil his mandate,

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 4

"Noting with concern that the response to these requests has not been
commensurate with the needs, resulting in a serious and continuing
imbalance between the mandates assigned to the High Commissioner and the
Centre by the competent bodies of the United Nations system in the field of
human rights and the resources available to fulfil all of these mandates,

"Taking note with appreciation of the information provided by the High
Commissioner with regard to the process of reorganizing the structure of
the Centre for Human Rights with the aim of increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Centre and ensuring that all its mandates can be
implemented,

"Considering that this process will contribute to the strengthening of
the functional framework for integrated and consolidated activities of the
Secretariat in the field of human rights,

"Mindful of situations in which rapid action by the High Commissioner
is required in order to address urgent crises in the field of human rights,

"Emphasizing that, while further improvement in the function and
efficiency of the Centre, together with a strong emphasis on good
management practices, is needed in order to enable the Centre to cope with
its constantly increasing workload, good management practices need to be
complemented by resources commensurate with mandates,

"1. Supports and encourages the efforts of the Secretary-General to
enhance the role and further improve the functioning of the Centre for
Human Rights, as an integral part of the Secretariat of the United Nations,
under the overall supervision of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights;

"2. Reiterates the need to ensure that all the necessary human,
financial, material and personnel resources are provided from the regular
budget of the United Nations without delay to the United Nations human
rights programme to enable it to carry out its mandates efficiently,
effectively and expeditiously;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to make available additional human
and financial resources, from within the overall regular budget of the
United Nations, and to enhance the capability of the High Commissioner and
the Centre to fulfil effectively their mandates and their ability to carry
out mandated operational activities and to coordinate efficiently with
other relevant departments of the Secretariat, as well as other organs,
bodies and specialized agencies of the United Nations system, including on
logistical and administrative questions, having due regard to the need to
finance and implement activities of the United Nations relating to
development;

"4. Supports fully the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner in
their efforts to strengthen the human rights activities of the United
Nations, inter alia, through reorganization of the structure of the Centre
to improve its efficiency and effectiveness;

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 5

"5. Encourages increased cooperation and coordination on human rights
issues between the High Commissioner, acting within his mandate, and other
departments and offices of the United Nations Secretariat;

"6. Requests the Administrative Committee on Coordination to ensure
that the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human
Rights can participate fully in all mechanisms related to the follow-up to
major United Nations conferences, in particular the inter-agency task
forces established for this purpose, and urges the High Commissioner to
take an active part in this regard;

"7. Requests the High Commissioner to continue to keep all States
informed on a regular basis of the ongoing process of restructuring the
Centre, inter alia, through informal open briefing sessions;

"8. Encourages the High Commissioner, within his mandate as set out
in General Assembly resolution 48/141, to continue to seek effective ways
to react rapidly to crises in the field of human rights and to continue to
report on his activities in this regard to the competent bodies of the
United Nations in the field of human rights, and requests the Secretary-
General in this context to support activities proposed by the High
Commissioner;

"9. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its
fifty-second session under the agenda item 'Human rights questions'."

9. At its 52nd meeting, on 22 November, the Committee had before it a
statement of the programme budget implications of the draft resolution,
submitted by the Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of
procedure of the General Assembly (A/C.3/51/L.51).
 
10. At its 56th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "Strengthening of the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights"
(A/C.3/51/L.39/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.39 and Brazil, the Republic of Korea, South Africa and Uruguay. 
Subsequently, Andorra, Japan, the Marshall Islands, Peru, the Republic of
Moldova, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine and the United
States of America joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

11. At the same meeting, the representative of Ireland orally revised the draft
resolution by replacing operative paragraphs 6 and 7, which had read:

"6. Requests the Administrative Committee on Coordination to ensure
that the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human
Rights can participate fully in all mechanisms related to the follow-up to
major United Nations conferences, in particular the inter-agency task
forces established for this purpose, and urges the High Commissioner to
take an active part in this regard;

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 6

"7. Requests the High Commissioner to continue to keep all States
informed on a regular basis of the ongoing process of restructuring the
Centre, inter alia, through informal open briefing sessions",

with the following text:

"6. Emphasizes the need for full participation of the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights
in all mechanisms related to the follow-up to major United Nations
conferences, in particular the inter-agency task forces established for
this purpose;

"7. Requests the High Commissioner to continue to provide information
and exchange views with all States on a regular basis on the ongoing
process of restructuring the Centre, inter alia, through informal open
briefing sessions".

12. At the same meeting, the Committee was informed that the revised draft
resolution, as orally revised, had no programme budget implications.

13. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Zambia,
Nicaragua, the Philippines and Costa Rica (see A/C.3/51/SR.56).

14. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.39/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 65, draft
resolution II).

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the
Russian Federation made a statement (see A/C.3/51/SR.56).

 C. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.45

16. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Austria, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus,
the Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gabon, Georgia, Greece,
Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Malta, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and Ukraine, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Effective
promotion of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or
Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities" (A/C.3/51/L.45). Subsequently,
Albania, Belarus, Burundi, Fiji, Finland, the Marshall Islands, San Marino and
the United States of America joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

17. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.45 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution III).

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 7

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.46

18. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Finland, on
behalf of Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malta, Mauritius, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions"
(A/C.3/51/L.46). Subsequently, Andorra, Benin, San Marino, Senegal, Slovakia
and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

19. At the 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Finland orally
revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In operative paragraph 3, the words "alleged extrajudicial, arbitrary
or summary executions" were replaced with the words "suspected cases of
extrajudicial, arbitrary or summary executions";

(b) Operative paragraph 8 was moved and renumbered 4, and the subsequent
paragraphs were renumbered accordingly;

20. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement (see
A/C.3/51/SR.53).

21. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.46, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 65, draft
resolution IV).

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.47

22. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Ireland, on
behalf of Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Marshall Islands, the Federated
States of Micronesia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sweden and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Elimination of all forms of religious intolerance" (A/C.3/51/L.47). 
Subsequently, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, Fiji, India,
Liechtenstein, Malta, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, the Republic of Moldova,
San Marino, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine and the United
States of America joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

23. At the 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Ireland orally
revised the draft resolution by replacing the words "religious extremism" with

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 8

the words "religious intolerance" in the eighth preambular paragraph and in
operative paragraph 4.

24. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.47,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution V).

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.48 and Rev.1

25. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of France, on
behalf of Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, the Central African Republic, Chile,
Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova,
Romania, San Marino, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Togo, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Question of enforced or involuntary disappearances"
(A/C.3/51/L.48), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the
United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
International Covenants on Human Rights and the other relevant
international human rights instruments,

"Recalling its resolution 33/173 of 20 December 1978 concerning
disappeared persons, and its resolutions 46/125 of 17 December 1991, 47/132
of 18 December 1992 and 49/193 of 23 December 1994 on the question of
enforced or involuntary disappearances,

"Recalling also its resolution 47/133 of 18 December 1992 proclaiming
the Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced
Disappearances as a body of principles for all States,

"Expressing concern that, according to the Working Group on Enforced
or Involuntary Disappearances, the practice of a number of States can run
counter to the Declaration,

"Deeply concerned in particular by the intensification of enforced
disappearances in various regions of the world and by the growing number of
reports concerning harassment, ill-treatment and intimidation of witnesses
of disappearances or relatives of persons who have disappeared,

"Convinced that further efforts are needed to promote wider awareness
of, and respect for, the Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 9

Enforced Disappearance and taking note in this regard of the report of the
Secretary-General,2

"Bearing in mind Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/30 of
19 April 1996,

"1. Reaffirms that any act of enforced disappearance is an offence to
human dignity and a grave and flagrant violation of the human rights and
fundamental freedoms proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, and reaffirmed and developed in other international instruments in
this field, as well as a violation of the rules of international law;

"2. Reiterates its invitation to all Governments to take appropriate
legislative or other steps to prevent and suppress the practice of enforced
disappearances, in keeping with the Declaration on the Protection of All
Persons from Enforced Disappearance, and to take action to that end at the
national and regional levels and in cooperation with the United Nations,
including through technical assistance;

"3. Calls upon Governments to take steps to ensure that, when a state
of emergency is introduced, the protection of human rights is ensured,
particularly as regards the prevention of enforced disappearances;

"4. Reminds Governments of the need to ensure that their competent
authorities conduct prompt and impartial inquiries in all circumstances,
whenever there is reason to believe that an enforced disappearance has
occurred in territory under their jurisdiction, and that, if allegations
are confirmed, perpetrators should be prosecuted;

"5. Once again urges the Governments concerned to take steps to
protect the families of disappeared persons against any intimidation or
ill-treatment to which they might be subjected;

"6. Encourages States, as some have already done, to provide concrete
information on measures taken to give effect to the Declaration, as well as
obstacles encountered;

"7. Requests all States to consider the possibility of disseminating
the text of the Declaration in their respective national languages and to
facilitate its dissemination in the national and local languages;

"8. Notes the action taken by non-governmental organizations to
encourage implementation of the Declaration, and invites them to continue
to facilitate its dissemination and to contribute to the work of the
Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities;

"9. Expresses its appreciation to the Working Group on Enforced or
Involuntary Disappearances for its humanitarian work;

                        

     2 A/51/561.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 10

"10. Invites the Working Group to identify obstacles to the
realization of the provisions of the Declaration, to recommend ways of
overcoming those obstacles and in this regard to continue a dialogue with
Governments and relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations;

"11. Furthermore encourages the Working Group to continue to consider
the question of impunity, in close collaboration with the rapporteur
appointed by the Subcommission and with due regard for the relevant
provisions of the Declaration;

"12. Requests the Working Group to pay the utmost attention to cases
of children subjected to enforced disappearance and children of disappeared
persons and to cooperate closely with the Governments concerned to search
for and identify those children;

"13. Appeals to the Governments concerned, particularly those that
have not yet replied to the communications transmitted by the Working
Group, to cooperate fully with it and, in particular, to reply promptly to
its requests for information so that, while respecting its working methods
based on discretion, it may perform its strictly humanitarian role;

"14. Encourages the Governments concerned to give serious
consideration to inviting the Working Group to visit their countries so as
to enable the Working Group to fulfil its mandate even more effectively;

"15. Expresses its profound thanks to the many Governments that have
cooperated with the Working Group and replied to its requests for
information, and to the Governments that have invited the Working Group to
visit their countries, asks them to give all necessary attention to the
Working Group's recommendations and invites them to inform the Working
Group of any action they take on those recommendations;

"16. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to continue to study
this question as a matter of priority and to take any steps it may deem
necessary to the pursuit of the task of the Working Group and to the
follow-up of its recommendations when it considers the report to be
submitted by the Working Group to the Commission at its fifty-third
session;

"17. Renews its requests to the Secretary-General to continue to
provide the Working Group with all the facilities it requires to perform
its functions, especially in carrying out missions and following them up;

"18. Requests the Secretary-General to keep it informed of the steps
he takes to secure the widespread dissemination and promotion of the
Declaration;

"19. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to it at its fifty-
third session a report on the steps taken to implement the present
resolution;

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 11

"20. Decides to consider the question of enforced disappearances, and
in particular the implementation of the Declaration at its fifty-third
session under the sub-item entitled 'Human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms'."

26. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "Question of enforced or involuntary disappearances"
(A/C.3/51/L.48/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.48 and Albania, Benin, Mauritius, Pakistan and the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia.

27. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.48/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution VI).

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.50

28. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Turkey, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Fiji, Georgia, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, India, Israel,
Kyrgyzstan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Panama, Peru,
the Philippines, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Samoa, Slovenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay and Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Follow-up to the United Nations Year for Tolerance" (A/C.3/51/L.50). 
Subsequently, Burundi, Guinea-Bissau, Kazakstan, Mongolia, the Niger and Papua
New Guinea joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

29. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.56 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution VII).

30. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the
Syrian Arab Republic made a statement (see A/C.3/51/SR.53).

H. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.52

31. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Brazil, on
behalf of Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d'Ivoire, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Israel, Italy, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Monaco, Mongolia, Namibia, Nicaragua,
Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, South Africa, Spain, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United States of America, Uruguay and
Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Strengthening of the rule of
law" (A/C.3/51/L.52). Subsequently, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Congo,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Mali, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Morocco, San Marino and the

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 12

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined in sponsoring the
draft resolution.

32. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.52 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution VIII).

I. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.54

33. At the 51st meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Peru, on behalf
of Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, France, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, India, Israel,
Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Spain, Turkey, Uruguay and Venezuela,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights and extreme poverty"
(A/C.3/51/L.54). Subsequently, Benin, Bhutan, Burundi, Fiji, Guinea, Indonesia,
Italy, Madagascar, the Niger and Rwanda joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

34. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.54 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution IX).

J. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.56

35. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Finland, France, Greece,
Honduras, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Monaco, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
and the United States of America, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Situation of human rights in Cambodia" (A/C.3/51/L.56). Subsequently, Costa
Rica, Denmark, Germany, Iceland, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal and Thailand
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

36. At its 54th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.56 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution X).

K. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.57

37. At the 51st meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Colombia, on
behalf of the States Members that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries and Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Brazil, China, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Croatia, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Mexico, Turkey and
Uruguay, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Right to development"
(A/C.3/51/L.57). Subsequently, Fiji, the Marshall Islands and Portugal joined
in sponsoring the draft resolution.

38. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.57 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution XI).

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 13

L. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.58

39. At the 51st meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Colombia, on
behalf of the States Members that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries and China, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Enhancement of
international cooperation in the field of human rights" (A/C.3/51/L.58).

40. At the 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Colombia orally
revised the draft resolution by replacing operative paragraph 2, which had read:

"2. Requests the Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights, in
carrying out the task assigned to him, to pursue the matter with a view to
reaching a successful conclusion of this initiative, preferably by the
fifty-third session of the Commission on Human Rights",

with:

"2. Invites the Commission on Human Rights to pursue the matter with
a view to reaching a successful conclusion of this initiative, preferably
by the fifty-third session of the Commission".

41. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland (on behalf of the
European Union), the United States of America, Hungary, the Russian Federation,
Ukraine and Costa Rica, made statements (see A/C.3/51/SR.53).

42. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.58, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 94 to 39, with
15 abstentions (see para. 65, draft resolution XII). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People's
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, South
Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia,

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 14

Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic
of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Benin, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Cyprus, El Salvador, Fiji, Georgia, Kazakstan,
Panama, Paraguay, Russian Federation, Uruguay.

43. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Netherlands and Uruguay (see A/C.3/51/SR.53).

M. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.60

44. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of El Salvador, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, the Congo, Costa
Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, France, Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland, Israel, Jordan, Kenya,
Kyrgyzstan, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, the Federated
States of Micronesia, Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, the
Niger, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation,
Samoa, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Suriname, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uruguay and
Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Culture of peace"
(A/C.3/51/L.60). Subsequently, Fiji, Guyana, Mali and the Sudan joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

45. At its 54th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.60 without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution XIII). 

46. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Philippines, Senegal, Bangladesh, Costa Rica, Peru,
Morocco and Guatemala (see A/C.3/51/SR.54).

N. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.62

47. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Belgium, on
behalf of Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Malta, the Philippines, Portugal, the Republic
of Korea, Romania, Slovenia, Togo, Ukraine, and Venezuela, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Regional arrangements for the promotion and protection of
human rights" (A/C.3/51/L.62). Subsequently, Benin, New Zealand, Poland and the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 15

48. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Belgium orally
revised operative paragraph 3 of the draft resolution by replacing the words
"inviting States that have not yet done so to submit instruments of
ratification, adhesion or succession to the principal international human rights
bodies" with the words "identifying obstacles to ratification of the principal
international human rights treaties and strategies to overcome them".

49. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.62,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 65, draft resolution XIV).

O. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.65

50. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, on behalf of Afghanistan, China, Cuba, the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya and the Sudan, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights
and unilateral coercive measures" (A/C.3/51/L.65).

51. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of the Islamic
Republic of Iran orally revised operative paragraph 2 by replacing the words
"inter alia" before the words "children, women and the elderly" with the words
"in particular".

52. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of the Islamic
Republic of Iran further orally revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In the seventh preambular paragraph and in operative paragraph 1, the
word "negative" was deleted before the words "territorial effects";

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the words "Rejects coercive extraterritorial
measures as tools for political or economic pressure" were replaced with the
words "Rejects unilateral coercive measures with all their extraterritorial
effects as tools for political or economic pressure".

53. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of the
Islamic Republic of Iran, Ireland (on behalf of the European Union), Albania and
the United States of America (see A/C.3/51/SR.54). 

54. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.65, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 54 to 44, with
49 abstentions (see para. 65, draft resolution XV). The voting was follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bangladesh, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 16

Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zimbabwe.

Against: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall
Islands, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San
Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, The former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uzbekistan.

Abstaining: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Côte d'Ivoire, El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Georgia,
Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya,
Kyrgyzstan, Lesotho, Malawi, Malta, Mauritius, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mozambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, Panama,
Philippines, Samoa, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sri Lanka,
Swaziland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine,
Zambia.

55. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Philippines and Uruguay (see A/C.3/51/SR.54).

P. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.70 and Rev.1

56. At the 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Namibia, on
behalf of Andorra, Australia, Austria, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Italy, Lesotho,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, the Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, the
Philippines, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Samoa, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Suriname, Swaziland, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, the United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education and public information
activities in the field of human rights" (A/C.3/51/L.70), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the fundamental and universal principles enshrined in the
Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, according to article 26 of which education shall be directed to the
full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the provisions of
other international human rights instruments, such as those of article 13
of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 17

article 28 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, that reflect the
aims of the aforementioned article,

"Recalling the relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly
and the Commission on Human Rights concerning the World Public Information
Campaign on Human Rights, the United Nations Decade for Human Rights
Education, 1995-2004, the project of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization entitled 'Towards a culture of peace',
the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World
Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993, and the fiftieth anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,

"Believing that the World Public Information Campaign on Human Rights
is a valuable complement to the activities of the United Nations aimed at
the further promotion and protection of human rights, and recalling the
importance attached by the World Conference on Human Rights to human rights
education and information,

"Convinced that human rights education and information contribute to
the realization of the right to development, to equal participation of
women and men in the development process, and to support for the special
needs and interests of such groups as children, indigenous people,
marginalized people, minorities and disabled persons,

"Convinced also that human rights education should involve more than
the provision of information and should constitute a comprehensive lifelong
process by which people at all levels of development and in all strata of
society learn respect for the dignity of others and the means and methods
of ensuring that respect within a democratic society,

"Recognizing that human rights education and information are essential
to the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that
carefully designed programmes of teaching, learning, training and sharing
of experiences, materials and information can have a catalytic effect on
national, regional and international initiatives to promote and protect
human rights and prevent human rights violations,

"Welcoming the programmes and activities undertaken by the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in the framework
of its transdisciplinary project entitled 'Towards a culture of peace', as
outlined in the report of the Director-General,3

"Recognizing the invaluable and creative role that non-governmental
organizations and community-based organizations can play in disseminating
public information and engaging in human rights education, especially at
the grass-roots level and in remote and rural communities,

"Aware of the potential supportive role of the private sector in
implementing at all levels of society the Plan of Action for the Decade and

                        

     3 A/51/395, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 18

the World Public Information Campaign, through creative initiatives and
financial support for governmental and non-governmental activities,

"Convinced that the effectiveness of existing human rights education
and public information activities would be enhanced by better coordination
and cooperation at the national, regional and international levels,

"Recalling that it is the responsibility of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights to coordinate relevant United Nations
education and public information programmes in the field of human rights,

"1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights on the implementation of the Plan of
Action for the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education,4 and of
the report of the Secretary-General on the development of public
information activities in the field of human rights, including the World
Public Information Campaign on Human Rights;5

"2. Welcomes the steps taken by numerous Governments,
intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations to
implement the Plan of Action for the Decade, as indicated in the report of
the High Commissioner;

"3. Urges all Governments to inform their communities about the World
Public Information Campaign and the Decade for Human Rights Education and
to contribute further to the implementation of the Plan of Action for the
Decade, in accordance with national conditions, by establishing broadly
representative national committees for human rights education and training
centres for human rights education or, where such bodies exist, by
strengthening them as agents for the elaboration and implementation of an
action-oriented national plan for information and education in human
rights, as well as by encouraging and supporting national and local
non-governmental organizations and community-based groups, involving them
in the implementation of the national action plan and including others in
developing educational and cultural programmes, as recommended in the Plan
of Action for the Decade;

"4. Appeals to Governments, in accordance with national conditions,
to accord priority to the dissemination in the relevant national and local
languages of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International
Covenants on Human Rights and other human rights instruments, human rights
materials and training manuals in their communities, as well as reports of
States Parties under the human rights treaties, and to provide information
and education in those languages on the practical ways in which national
and international institutions and procedures may be utilized to ensure the
effective implementation of those instruments;

                        

     4 A/51/506, annex.

     5 A/51/558.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 19

"5. Welcomes the efforts made by the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights, together with the Department of Public Information of the
United Nations Secretariat, to increase cooperation with the media,
including by the provision of timely and relevant information on human
rights issues, and urges him to complete discussions on the creation of the
media advisory board, as suggested in the Plan of Action;

"6. Requests the High Commissioner to continue to coordinate the
implementation of the Plan of Action, to ensure maximum effectiveness and
efficiency in the use, processing, management and distribution of
information and educational materials, and to continue to coordinate and
harmonize human rights information strategies within the United Nations
system;

"7. Requests the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat to
continue the development of training courses and materials, including
targeted training manuals for professional audiences, as well as the
dissemination of human rights information materials as a component of
technical assistance projects, supplemented by electronic means wherever
possible, taking particular account of the human rights needs of women,
children, remote or isolated communities and persons with low levels of
literacy;

"8. Requests the existing human rights monitoring bodies to place
emphasis on the implementation by Member States of their international
obligation to promote and implement programmes of information and education
in human rights;

"9. Requests the Secretary-General to consider establishing a
voluntary fund for human rights education, with special provision for the
support of the human rights education activities of non-governmental
organizations, to be administered by the Centre for Human Rights;

"10. Invites the specialized agencies and relevant United Nations
programmes to contribute, within their respective spheres of competence, to
the implementation of the Plan of Action for the Decade and the World
Public Information Campaign on Human Rights;

"11. Calls upon international, regional and national non-governmental
organizations, in particular those concerned with women, labour,
development, food, housing, education, health care and the environment, as
well as all other social justice groups, human rights advocates, educators,
religious organizations and the media, to undertake specific activities of
formal, non-formal and informal education, including cultural events, alone
and in cooperation with the Centre for Human Rights, in implementing the
United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education;

"12. Urges the Department of Public Information to continue to utilize
United Nations information centres for the timely dissemination, within
their designated areas of activity, of basic information, reference and
audiovisual materials on human rights and fundamental freedoms, including
the reports of States Parties under human rights instruments, and, to this

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 20

end, to ensure that United Nations information centres are supplied with
adequate quantities of those materials;

"13. Stresses the need for close collaboration between the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Centre for
Human Rights and the Department of Public Information in the implementation
of the World Public Information Campaign on Human Rights and the Decade for
Human Rights Education, and the need to harmonize their activities with
those of other organizations, including the International Committee of the
Red Cross and relevant non-governmental organizations, with regard to the
dissemination of information on international humanitarian law;

"14. Requests the High Commissioner, in cooperation with the Centre
for Human Rights, the Department of Public Information, the treaty-
monitoring bodies, relevant United Nations organs and agencies,
non-governmental organizations and national institutions, in accordance
with Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/42 of 19 April 1996, to
elaborate a strategy of two years of intensive educational and cultural
activities throughout the world for the preparation of the celebration of
the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in
December 1998;

"15. Requests the Secretary-General to disseminate the content of the
present resolution widely to Governments and non-governmental and
intergovernmental organizations concerned with human rights education and
public information, and to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-
second session a comprehensive report on the implementation of the present
resolution for consideration under the item entitled 'Human rights
questions'."

57. At its 55th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education and
public information activities in the field of human rights"
(A/C.3/51/L.70/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.70. Subsequently, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia, Burundi, Cambodia,
Canada, Colombia, France, Guyana, Kenya, Mongolia and the Netherlands joined in
sponsoring the revised draft resolution. 

58. At the same meeting, the representative of Namibia orally revised the draft
resolution as follows:

(a) In the eighth preambular paragraph, the words "their full human
rights" were replaced by the words "all their human rights";

(b) In operative paragraph 3, after the words "by establishing", the words
"in accordance with national conditions" were inserted, and the words "as agents
for" were replaced with the words "to work towards";

(c) A new operative paragraph was inserted after paragraph 5, reading:

"6. Welcomes the efforts made by the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights with the Department of Public Information of the

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 21

Secretariat to increase cooperation with the media, including by the
provision of timely and relevant information on human rights issues;"

and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly;

(d) In operative paragraph 10 (former paragraph 9), the words "existing
human rights monitoring bodies and special rapporteurs", were replaced with the
words "human rights mechanisms".

59. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.70/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 65, draft
resolution XVI).

60. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Japan
made a statement (see A/C.3/51/SR.55). 

Q. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.71 and Rev.1

61. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bangladesh, Burundi, China, Colombia, Cuba, the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Kenya, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Peru, Rwanda, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Uganda, the United
Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Strengthening of United Nations action in the human rights
field through the promotion of international cooperation and the importance of
non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity" (A/C.3/51/L.71), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Bearing in mind that among the purposes of the United Nations are
those of developing friendly relations among nations based on respect for
the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples and taking
other appropriate measures to strengthen universal peace, as well as
achieving international cooperation in solving international problems of an
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and
encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all
without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

"Desirous of achieving further progress in international cooperation
in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms,

"Deeply convinced that United Nations action in this field should be
based not only on a profound understanding of the broad range of problems
existing in all societies but also on full respect for the political,
economic and social realities of each of them, in strict compliance with
the purposes and principles of the Charter and for the basic purpose of

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 22

promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
through international cooperation,

"Reaffirming all its resolutions in this regard,

"Reaffirming also the importance of ensuring the universality,
objectivity and non-selectivity of the consideration of human rights
issues, as affirmed in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,
adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,

"Aware of the fact that the promotion, protection and full exercise of
all human rights and fundamental freedoms as legitimate concerns of the
world community should be guided by the principles of universality,
non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity and should not be used for
political ends,

"Affirming the importance of the objectivity, independence and
discretion of the special rapporteurs and representatives on thematic
issues and countries, as well as of the members of the working groups, in
carrying out their mandates,

"Underlining the obligation that Governments have to promote and
protect human rights and to carry out the responsibilities that they have
undertaken under international law, especially the Charter, as well as
various international instruments in the field of human rights,

"1. Reiterates that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations, all peoples have the right freely to determine, without external
interference, their political status and to pursue their economic, social
and cultural development, and that every State has the duty to respect that
right within the provisions of the Charter, including respect for
territorial integrity;

"2. Calls upon all Member States to base their activities for the
protection and promotion of human rights, including the development of
further international cooperation in this field, on the Charter of the
United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and other relevant
international instruments, and to refrain from activities that are
inconsistent with that international framework;

"3. Considers that international cooperation in this field should
make an effective and practical contribution to the urgent task of
preventing mass and flagrant violations of human rights and fundamental
freedoms for all and to the strengthening of international peace and
security;

"4. Affirms that the promotion, protection and full realization of
all human rights and fundamental freedoms, as legitimate concerns of the

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 23

world community, should be guided by the principles of non-selectivity,
impartiality and objectivity, and should not be used for political ends;

"5. Requests all human rights bodies within the United Nations
system, as well as the special rapporteurs and representatives, independent
experts and working groups, to take fully into account the contents of the
present resolution in carrying out their mandates;

"6. Invites all special rapporteurs and representatives and
independent experts, in carrying out their mandates, to bear in mind the
need to be able to respond effectively to credible and reliable information
that comes before them, to seek the views and comments of the Governments
concerned on any information which they intend to include in their reports
and to carry out their work with discretion and independence;

"7. Expresses its conviction that an unbiased and fair approach to
human rights issues contributes to the promotion of international
cooperation as well as to the effective promotion, protection and
realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

"8. Stresses, in this context, the continuing need for impartial and
objective information on the political, economic and social situations and
events of all countries;

"9. Invites Member States to consider adopting, as appropriate,
within the framework of their respective legal systems and in accordance
with their obligations under international law, especially the Charter, and
international human rights instruments, the measures that they may deem
appropriate to achieve further progress in international cooperation in
promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms;

"10. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to take duly into account
the present resolution and to consider further proposals for the
strengthening of United Nations action in the human rights field through
the promotion of international cooperation and the importance of
non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity, inter alia, by supporting
the ongoing informal process of consultation on agenda reform and on the
improvement of its methods of work started in its fifty-second session;

"11. Requests the Secretary-General to consult Member States,
intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations on ways
and means to improve international cooperation to ensure the principles of
non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity, and to present a
comprehensive report on this issue to the General Assembly at its fifty-
third session;

"12. Decides to consider this matter at its fifty-second session under
the item entitled 'Human rights questions'."

62. At its 54th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "Strengthening of United Nations action in the human

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 24

rights field through the promotion of international cooperation and the
importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity"
(A/C.3/51/L.71/Rev.1) submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.71. Subsequently, Bolivia, Botswana, the Congo, Costa Rica, Ecuador,
the Gambia, India, the Niger and Yemen joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

63. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft
resolution as follows:

(a) A new third preambular paragraph was inserted, reading:

"Considering that such international cooperation should be based on
the principles embodied in international law, especially the Charter of the
United Nations, as well as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant instruments";

(b) Operative paragraph 11, which had read:

"11. Requests the Secretary-General to consult Member States,
intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations on ways
and means to improve international cooperation to ensure the principles of
non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity, and to present a
comprehensive report on this issue to the General Assembly at its fifty-
third session",

was replaced by:

"Requests the Secretary-General to consult Member States,
intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations on ways
and means for the strengthening of United Nations action in the human
rights field, including the promotion of international cooperation and the
importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity, and to present
a comprehensive report on this issue to the General Assembly at its fifty-
third session".

64. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.71/Rev.1, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 65, draft
resolution XVII).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

65. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 25

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Respect for the right to universal freedom of travel and the
vital importance of family reunification

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal,
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated,

Recalling the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,6

Stressing that, as stated in the Programme of Action of the International
Conference on Population and Development,7 family reunification of documented
migrants is an important factor in international migration, and that remittances
by documented migrants to their countries of origin often constitute a very
important source of foreign exchange and are instrumental in improving the well-
being of relatives left behind,

Recalling also its resolution 50/175 of 22 December 1995,

1. Once again calls upon all States to guarantee the universally
recognized freedom of travel to all foreign nationals legally residing in their
territory;

2. Reaffirms that all Governments, particularly those of receiving
countries, must recognize the vital importance of family reunification and
promote its incorporation into national legislation in order to ensure
protection of the unity of families of documented migrants;

3. Calls upon all States to allow, in conformity with international
legislation, the free flow of financial remittances by foreign nationals
residing in their territory to their relatives in the country of origin;

4. Also calls upon all States to refrain from enacting, and to repeal if
it already exists, legislation intended as a coercive measure that discriminates
against individuals or groups of legal migrants by adversely affecting family
reunification and the right to send financial remittances to relatives in the
country of origin;

5. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-
second session under the item entitled "Human rights questions".

                        

     6 Resolution 217 A (III).

     7 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development,
Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18),
chap. I, resolution 1, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 26

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Strengthening of the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling, inter alia, its resolutions 48/141 of 20 December 1993 and
50/187 of 22 December 1995, and bearing in mind all relevant resolutions of the
Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights, including
Commission resolution 1996/82 of 24 April 1996,

Recalling the request to the Secretary-General contained in paragraph 37 of
its resolution 50/214 of 23 December 1995 to establish within the biennium
1996-1997 a new branch whose primary responsibilities would include the
promotion and protection of the right to development,

Reaffirming that the promotion and protection of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms must be considered as a priority objective of the United
Nations in accordance with its purposes and principles, in particular the
purpose of international cooperation,

Recalling that, in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the
World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,
stressed the importance of strengthening the Centre for Human Rights of the
Secretariat,8

Taking into account that, in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action, the World Conference on Human Rights requested the Secretary-General and
the General Assembly to take immediate steps to increase substantially the
resources for the human rights programme, from within the existing and future
regular budgets of the United Nations, and to take urgent steps to seek
increased extrabudgetary resources,9

Taking into account also the establishment of the post of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the mandate for the post,
including its coordinating role and its overall supervision of the Centre, as
well as the request by the General Assembly in resolution 48/141 for appropriate
staff and resources to enable the High Commissioner to fulfil his mandate,

Noting with concern that the response to these requests has not been
commensurate with the needs, resulting in a serious and continuing imbalance
between the mandates assigned to the High Commissioner and the Centre by the
competent bodies of the United Nations system in the field of human rights and
the resources available to fulfil all of these mandates,

                        

     8 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. II, para. 13.

     9 Ibid., para. 9.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 27

Taking into account that the responsibilities of the High Commissioner
include, inter alia, engaging in a dialogue with all Governments in the
implementation of his mandate with a view to the promotion and protection of all
human rights, and rationalizing, adapting, strengthening and streamlining the
United Nations machinery in the field of human rights with a view to improving
its efficiency and effectiveness,

Taking also into account the fact that, in the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action, the World Conference on Human Rights urged United Nations
organs, bodies and the specialized agencies whose activities deal with human
rights to cooperate in order to strengthen, rationalize and streamline their
activities, taking into account the need to avoid unnecessary duplication,

Bearing in mind that Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United
Nations states that the paramount consideration in the employment of the staff
of the Secretariat and in the determination of the conditions of the service
shall be the necessity of securing the highest standards of efficiency,
competence and integrity, and that due regard shall be paid to the importance of
recruiting the staff of the Secretariat on as wide a geographical basis as
possible;

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the strengthening of
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for
Human Rights,10 and of the note by the Secretary-General on the composition of
the staff of the Centre for Human Rights11 as well as the report of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights,12

Taking note with appreciation of the information provided by the High
Commissioner with regard to the restructuring of the Centre for Human Rights
with a view to increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the Centre and
ensuring that all its mandates can be implemented,

Considering that this process should contribute to the strengthening of the
functional framework for integrated and consolidated activities of the
Secretariat in the field of human rights,

Emphasizing that, while further improvement in the functioning and
efficiency of the Centre, together with a strong emphasis on good management
practices, is needed in order to enable the Centre to fulfil all mandates
entrusted to it and cope with its constantly increasing workload, good
management practices need to be complemented by resources commensurate with
mandates,

                        

     10 A/51/641.

     11 A/51/650.

     12 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement
No. 36 (A/51/36).

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 28

1. Supports and encourages the efforts of the Secretary-General to
enhance the role and further improve the functioning of the Centre for Human
Rights, as an integral part of the Secretariat of the United Nations, under the
overall supervision of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;

2. Reiterates the need to ensure that all the necessary human, financial,
material and personnel resources are provided from the regular budget of the
United Nations without delay to the United Nations human rights programme to
enable it to carry out the mandates efficiently, effectively and expeditiously,
having due regard to the need to finance and implement activities of the United
Nations relating to development;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to enhance the capability of the High
Commissioner and the Centre to fulfil effectively their mandates and their
ability to carry out mandated operational activities and to coordinate
efficiently with other relevant departments of the Secretariat, as well as other
organs, bodies and specialized agencies of the United Nations system, including
on logistical and administrative questions;

4. Supports fully the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner in
their efforts to strengthen the human rights activities of the United Nations,
inter alia, through reorganization of the structure of the Centre to improve its
efficiency and effectiveness;

5. Encourages increased cooperation and coordination on human rights
issues between the High Commissioner, acting within his mandate, and other
departments and offices of the United Nations Secretariat;

6. Emphasizes the need for full participation of the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights in all
mechanisms related to the follow-up to major United Nations conferences, in
particular the inter-agency task forces established for this purpose;

7. Requests the High Commissioner to continue to provide information and
exchange of views with all States on a regular basis on the ongoing process of
restructuring the Centre, inter alia, through informal open briefing sessions;

8. Encourages the High Commissioner, within his mandate as set out in
General Assembly resolution 48/141, to continue to play an active role in
promoting and protecting human rights, including by preventing human rights
violations throughout the world, and, in this context requests the Secretary-
General to support activities proposed by the High Commissioner;

9. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-
second session under the item entitled "Human rights questions".

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 29

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Effective promotion of the Declaration on the Rights of
Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and 

Linguistic Minorities

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 47/135 of 18 December 1992, as well as its
subsequent resolutions on the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to
National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities,

Concerned by the growing frequency and severity of disputes and conflicts
concerning minorities in many countries, and their often tragic consequences,
and that persons belonging to minorities are particularly vulnerable to
displacement through, inter alia, population transfers, refugee flows and forced
relocation,

Considering that the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities contribute
to political and social stability and peace and enrich the cultural heritage of
society as a whole in the States in which such persons live,

Noting that the Working Group on Minorities of the Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities held its second
session from 30 April to 3 May 1996, and that its report will be made available
to the Commission on Human Rights,

Acknowledging that the United Nations has an increasingly important role to
play regarding the protection of minorities,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General;13

2. Reaffirms the obligation of States to ensure that persons belonging to
minorities may exercise fully and effectively all human rights and fundamental
freedoms without any discrimination and in full equality before the law in
accordance with the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National
or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities;

3. Urges States and the international community to promote and protect
the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities, as set out in the Declaration, including through the facilitation of
their participation in all aspects of the political, economic, social, religious
and cultural life of society and in the economic progress and development of
their country;

4. Recognizes that respect for human rights and the promotion of
understanding and tolerance by Governments as well as between and among

                        

     13 A/51/536.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 30

minorities is central to the protection and promotion of the rights of persons
belonging to minorities;

5. Urges States to take, as appropriate, all the necessary
constitutional, legislative, administrative and other measures to promote and
give effect to the principles contained in the Declaration;

6. Appeals to States to make bilateral and multilateral efforts, as
appropriate, in order to protect the rights of persons belonging to national or
ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities in their countries, in accordance
with the Declaration;

7. Calls upon the Secretary-General to make available, at the request of
Governments concerned, qualified expertise on minority issues, including the
prevention and resolution of disputes, to assist in existing or potential
situations involving minorities;

8. Welcomes the activities of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights relating to the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to minorities and, in accordance with his mandate, calls upon him to
promote the implementation of the Declaration and to continue to engage in a
dialogue with Governments concerned for that purpose;

9. Requests the High Commissioner to continue his efforts to improve the
coordination and cooperation of United Nations programmes and agencies which
deal with minority issues in activities related to the promotion and protection
of the rights of persons belonging to minorities;

10. Urges all treaty bodies to give due regard, within their respective
mandates, to the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to
minorities;

11. Calls upon States to continue to include in their reports to human
rights treaty bodies, in accordance with the relevant conventions, information
on measures taken for the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to minorities;

12. Calls upon all special representatives, special rapporteurs and
working groups of the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give attention,
within their respective mandates, to situations involving minorities;

13. Encourages intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to
continue to contribute to the promotion and protection of the rights of persons
belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution under
the item entitled "Human rights questions".

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 31

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions

The General Assembly,

Considering that the subject of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary
executions has been discussed in the United Nations for many years14 within the
framework of discussions on human rights based on the general recognition of the
right to life of every person as guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,15 the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights16 and a large number of other international human rights
instruments, that extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions can be fought
effectively only through a genuine will on the part of Governments to enforce
the safeguards and guarantees for the protection of the right to life of every
person, that declarations of commitment to the protection of the right to life
by Governments are only effective if they are translated into practice and
respected by all and that, if the aim is protection of the right to life, the
emphasis must be on prevention of all forms of violations of this fundamental
right,

1. Strongly condemns once again all the extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions that continue to take place throughout the world;

2. Demands that all Governments ensure that the practice of
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions be brought to an end and that
they take effective action to combat and eliminate the phenomenon in all its
forms;

3. Reiterates the obligation of all Governments to conduct exhaustive and
impartial investigations into all suspected cases of extrajudicial, arbitrary or
summary executions, to identify and bring to justice those responsible, to grant
adequate compensation to the victims or their families and to adopt all
necessary measures to prevent the recurrence of such executions;

4. Reiterates that the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions needs to be able to
respond effectively to credible and reliable information that comes before him,
and invites him to continue to seek the views and comments of all concerned,
including Member States, in the elaboration of his report;

                        

     14 The most recent resolutions are General Assembly resolution 49/191 and
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/74 (see E/1996/L.18; to be issued in
final form in Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1996,
Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23)).

     15 Resolution 217 A (III).

     16 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 32

5. Reaffirms Economic and Social Council decision 1995/284 of
25 July 1995, in which the Council approved the decision of the Commission on
Human Rights in its resolution 1995/73 of 8 March 199517 to extend the mandate of
the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions for a
three-year period, and recommends that the Commission at its fifty-fourth
session continue his mandate;

6. Takes note of the interim report of the Special Rapporteur on
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions;18

7. Notes the important role the Special Rapporteur has played towards the
elimination of extrajudicial, arbitrary or summary executions;

8. Recalls that the Commission on Human Rights, in its resolution
1996/74, requested the Special Rapporteur, in carrying out his mandate:

(a) To continue to examine situations of extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions and to submit his findings, together with conclusions and
recommendations, to the Commission, as well as such other reports as the Special
Rapporteur deems necessary in order to keep the Commission informed about such
serious situations of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions that
warrant its immediate attention;

(b) To respond effectively to information that comes before him, in
particular when a summary or arbitrary execution is imminent or threatened, or
when such an execution has occurred;

(c) To enhance further his dialogue with Governments, as well as to follow
up on recommendations made in reports after visits to particular countries;

(d) To continue to pay special attention to extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions of children and women and to allegations concerning
violations of the right to life in the context of violence against participants
in demonstrations and other peaceful public manifestations or against persons
belonging to minorities;

(e) To pay special attention to extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary
executions where the victims are individuals who are carrying out peaceful
activities in the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

(f) To continue monitoring the implementation of existing international
standards on safeguards and restrictions relating to the imposition of capital
punishment, bearing in mind the comments made by the Human Rights Committee19 in

                        

     17 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement
No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.

     18 A/51/457, annex.

     19 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement
No. 40 (A/51/40), paras. 396-399.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 33

its interpretation of article 6 of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, as well as the Second Optional Protocol thereto;20

(g) To apply a gender perspective in his work;

9. Strongly urges all Governments to respond to the communications
transmitted to them by the Special Rapporteur, and urges them and all others
concerned to cooperate with and assist the Special Rapporteur so that he may
carry out his mandate effectively, including, where appropriate, by issuing
invitations to the Special Rapporteur when he so requests;

10. Encourages Governments, international organizations and
non-governmental organizations to organize training programmes and to support
projects with a view to training or educating military forces, law enforcement
officers and government officials, as well as members of the United Nations
peacekeeping or observer missions, in human rights and humanitarian law issues
connected with their work, and appeals to the international community to support
endeavours to that end;

11. Urges the Special Rapporteur to continue to draw to the attention of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights such situations of
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions as are of particularly serious
concern to him or where early action might prevent further deterioration;

12. Welcomes the cooperation established between the Special Rapporteur
and other United Nations mechanisms and procedures in the field of human rights,
as well as with medical and forensic experts, and encourages the Special
Rapporteur to continue efforts in this regard;

13. Encourages the Governments of all States in which the death penalty
has not been abolished to comply with their obligations under the relevant
provisions of international human rights instruments, taking into account the
safeguards and guarantees referred to in Economic and Social Council resolutions
1984/50 of 25 May 1984 and 1989/64 of 24 May 1989;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to inform the Commission on Human
Rights of the implementation of Economic and Social Council decision 1995/284,
keeping in mind the comments on this matter by the Special Rapporteur in his
report,21 in order to enable him to carry out his mandate effectively, including
through country visits;

15. Again requests the Secretary-General to continue to use his best
endeavours in cases where the minimum standard of legal safeguards provided for
in articles 6, 9, 14 and 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights appears not to have been respected;

                        

     20 Resolution 44/128, annex.

     21 E/CN.4/1996/4, para. 619.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 34

16. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit to the General Assembly at
its fifty-third session an interim report on the situation worldwide in regard
to extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions and his recommendations for
more effective action to combat that phenomenon.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Elimination of all forms of religious intolerance

The General Assembly,

Recalling that all States have pledged themselves, under the Charter of the
United Nations, to promote and encourage universal respect for and observance of
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race,
sex, language or religion,

Reaffirming that discrimination against human beings on the grounds of
religion or belief constitutes an affront to human dignity and a disavowal of
the principles of the Charter,

Reaffirming its resolution 36/55 of 25 November 1981, by which it
proclaimed the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of
Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief,

Recalling article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights,22

Emphasizing that the right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and
belief is far-reaching and profound and that it encompasses freedom of thought
on all matters, personal conviction and the commitment to religion or belief,
whether manifested individually or in community with others,

Reaffirming the call of the World Conference on Human Rights for all
Governments to take all appropriate measures in compliance with their
international obligations and with due regard to their respective legal systems
to counter intolerance and related violence based on religion or belief,
including practices of discrimination against women and the desecration of
religious sites, recognizing that every individual has the right to freedom of
thought, conscience, expression and religion,

Calling upon all Governments to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur of
the Commission on Human Rights on religious intolerance to enable him to carry
out his mandate fully,

Alarmed that serious instances of intolerance and discrimination on the
grounds of religion or belief, including acts of violence, intimidation and
coercion motivated by religious intolerance, occur in many parts of the world
and threaten the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

                        

     22 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 35

Deeply concerned that, as reported by the Special Rapporteur, the rights
violated on religious grounds include the right to life, the right to physical
integrity and to liberty and security of person, the right to freedom of
expression, the right not to be subjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment and the right not to be arbitrarily arrested
or detained,23

1. Reaffirms that freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief is
a human right derived from the inherent dignity of the human person and
guaranteed to all without discrimination;

2. Urges States to ensure that their constitutional and legal systems
provide adequate and effective guarantees of freedom of thought, conscience,
religion and belief, including the provision of effective remedies in cases
where the right to freedom of religion or belief is violated;

3. Also urges States to ensure, in particular, that no one within their
jurisdiction is, because of their religion or belief, deprived of the right to
life or the right to liberty and security of person, or subjected to torture or
arbitrary arrest or detention;

4. Further urges States, in conformity with international standards of
human rights, to take all necessary action to prevent such instances, to take
all appropriate measures to combat hatred, intolerance and acts of violence,
intimidation and coercion motivated by religious intolerance and to encourage,
through the educational system and by other means, understanding, tolerance and
respect in matters relating to freedom of religion or belief;

5. Recognizes that legislation alone is not enough to prevent violations
of human rights, including the right to freedom of religion or belief;

6. Emphasizes that, as underlined by the Human Rights Committee,
restrictions on the freedom to manifest religion or belief are permitted only if
limitations are prescribed by law, are necessary to protect public safety,
order, health or morals, or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others, and
are applied in a manner that does not vitiate the right to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion;

7. Urges States to ensure that, in the course of their official duties,
members of law enforcement bodies, civil servants, educators and other public
officials respect different religions and beliefs and do not discriminate
against persons professing other religions or beliefs;

8. Calls upon all States to recognize, as provided in the Declaration on
the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on
Religion or Belief, the right of all persons to worship or assemble in
connection with a religion or belief, and to establish and maintain places for
those purposes;

                        

     23 See E/CN.4/1994/79, para. 103.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 36

9. Expresses its grave concern at any attack upon religious places, sites
and shrines, and calls upon all States, in accordance with their national
legislation and in conformity with international human rights standards, to
exert utmost efforts to ensure that such places, sites and shrines are fully
respected and protected;

10. Recognizes that the exercise of tolerance and non-discrimination by
persons and groups is necessary for the full realization of the aims of the
Declaration;

11. Encourages the continued efforts on the part of the Special Rapporteur
of the Commission on Human Rights on religious intolerance, appointed to examine
incidents and governmental actions in all parts of the world that are
incompatible with the provisions of the Declaration and to recommend remedial
measures as appropriate;

12. Encourages Governments to give serious consideration to inviting the
Special Rapporteur to visit their countries so as to enable him to fulfil his
mandate even more effectively;

13. Encourages Governments, when seeking the assistance of the United
Nations programme of advisory services and technical assistance in the field of
human rights, to consider, where appropriate, including requests for assistance
in the field of promotion and protection of the right to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion;

14. Welcomes and encourages the efforts of non-governmental organizations
and religious bodies and groups to promote the implementation of the
Declaration, and invites them to consider what further contribution they could
make to its implementation and dissemination in all parts of the world;

15. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue its consideration
of measures to implement the Declaration;

16. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit an interim report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session;

17. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Special Rapporteur
receives the necessary staffing, financial and material resources to enable him
to discharge in full and on time his mandate;

18. Decides to consider the question of the elimination of all forms of
religious intolerance at its fifty-second session under the item entitled "Human
rights questions".

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 37

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Question of enforced or involuntary disappearances

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the
United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,24 the International
Covenants on Human Rights25 and the other relevant international human rights
instruments,

Recalling its resolution 33/173 of 20 December 1978 concerning disappeared
persons, and its resolutions 46/125 of 17 December 1991, 47/132 of
18 December 1992 and 49/193 of 23 December 1994 on the question of enforced or
involuntary disappearances,

Recalling also its resolution 47/133 of 18 December 1992 proclaiming the
Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance as a
body of principles for all States,

Expressing concern that, according to the Working Group on Enforced or
Involuntary Disappearances, the practice of a number of States can run counter
to the Declaration,

Deeply concerned, in particular, by the intensification of enforced
disappearances in various regions of the world and by the growing number of
reports concerning harassment, ill-treatment and intimidation of witnesses of
disappearances or relatives of persons who have disappeared,

Convinced that further efforts are needed to promote wider awareness of,
and respect for, the Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced
Disappearance, and taking note in this regard of the report of the Secretary-
General,26

Bearing in mind Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/30 of
19 April 1996,27

1. Reaffirms that any act of enforced disappearance is an offence to
human dignity and a grave and flagrant violation of the human rights and
fundamental freedoms proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
reaffirmed and developed in other international instruments in this field, as
well as a violation of the rules of international law;

                        

     24 Resolution 217 A (III).

     25 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     26 A/51/561.

     27 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 38

2. Reiterates its invitation to all Governments to take appropriate
legislative or other steps to prevent and suppress the practice of enforced
disappearances, in keeping with the Declaration on the Protection of All Persons
from Enforced Disappearance, and to take action to that end at the national and
regional levels and in cooperation with the United Nations, including through
technical assistance;

3. Calls upon Governments to take steps to ensure that, when a state of
emergency is introduced, the protection of human rights is ensured, in
particular as regards the prevention of enforced disappearances;

4. Reminds Governments of the need to ensure that their competent
authorities conduct prompt and impartial inquiries in all circumstances,
whenever there is reason to believe that an enforced disappearance has occurred
in territory under their jurisdiction, and that, if allegations are confirmed,
perpetrators should be prosecuted;

5. Once again urges the Governments concerned to take steps to protect
the families of disappeared persons against any intimidation or ill-treatment to
which they might be subjected;

6. Encourages States, as some have already done, to provide concrete
information on measures taken to give effect to the Declaration, as well as
obstacles encountered;

7. Requests all States to consider the possibility of disseminating the
text of the Declaration in their respective national languages and to facilitate
its dissemination in the national and local languages;

8. Notes the action taken by non-governmental organizations to encourage
implementation of the Declaration, and invites them to continue to facilitate
its dissemination and to contribute to the work of the Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities;

9. Expresses its appreciation to the Working Group on Enforced or
Involuntary Disappearances for its humanitarian work;

10. Requests the Working Group, in the continued exercise of its mandate,
to take into account the provisions of the Declaration and to modify its working
methods, if necessary;

11. Recalls that the primary role of the Working Group, as described in
its reports, is to act as a channel of communication between the families of
disappeared persons and the Governments concerned, with a view to ensuring that
sufficiently documented and clearly identified individual cases are
investigated, and to ascertain whether such information falls under its mandate
and contains the required elements, and invites the Group to continue to seek
the views and comments of all concerned, including Member States, in preparing
its report;

12. Invites the Working Group to identify obstacles to the realization of
the provisions of the Declaration, to recommend ways of overcoming those

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 39

obstacles and in this regard to continue a dialogue with Governments and
relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations;

13. Encourages, furthermore, the Working Group to continue to consider the
question of impunity, in close collaboration with the rapporteur appointed by
the Subcommission and with due regard for the relevant provisions of the
Declaration;

14. Requests the Working Group to pay the utmost attention to cases of
children subjected to enforced disappearance and children of disappeared persons
and to cooperate closely with the Governments concerned to search for and
identify those children;

15. Appeals to the Governments concerned, in particular those which have
not yet replied to the communications transmitted by the Working Group, to
cooperate fully with it and, in particular, to reply promptly to its requests
for information so that, while respecting its working methods based on
discretion, it may perform its strictly humanitarian role;

16. Encourages the Governments concerned to give serious consideration to
inviting the Working Group to visit their countries so as to enable the Group to
fulfil its mandate even more effectively;

17. Expresses its profound thanks to the many Governments that have
cooperated with the Working Group and replied to its requests for information,
and to the Governments that have invited the Group to visit their countries,
asks them to give all necessary attention to the recommendations of the Group,
and invites them to inform the Group of any action they take on those
recommendations;

18. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to continue to study this
question as a matter of priority and to take any steps it may deem necessary to
the pursuit of the task of the Working Group and to the follow-up of its
recommendations when it considers the report to be submitted by the Working
Group to the Commission at its fifty-third session;

19. Renews its requests to the Secretary-General to continue to provide
the Working Group with all the facilities it requires to perform its functions,
especially in carrying out missions and following them up;

20. Requests the Secretary-General to keep it informed of the steps he
takes to secure the widespread dissemination and promotion of the Declaration;

21. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to it at its fifty-third
session a report on the steps taken to implement the present resolution;

22. Decides to consider the question of enforced disappearances, and in
particular the implementation of the Declaration, at its fifty-third session
under the item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative
approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms".

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 40

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Follow-up to the United Nations Year for Tolerance

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 47/124 of 18 December 1992, 48/126 of
20 December 1993 and 49/213 of 23 December 1994, by which it proclaimed and
supported the United Nations Year for Tolerance,

Recalling also that the Charter of the United Nations affirms in its
preamble that to practice tolerance is one of the principles to be applied to
attain the ends pursued by the United Nations of preventing war and maintaining
peace,

Stressing that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as set forth in
the Charter, is the achievement of international cooperation in solving
international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian
character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for
fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or
religion,

Bearing in mind the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,28 the Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human
Rights on 25 June 1993,29 and the International Covenants on Human Rights,30

Reconfirming that tolerance is the sound foundation of any civil society
and of peace,

Taking note of the note by the Secretary-General31 transmitting the final
report on the United Nations Year for Tolerance, including the Declaration of
Principles on Tolerance and Follow-up Plan of Action for the United Nations Year
for Tolerance, submitted to him by the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization as requested by the General Assembly in its resolution
49/213,

Taking note also of resolution 28 C/5.6 of the General Conference of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,

1. Welcomes the role played by the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization in the preparation for and implementation of the
United Nations Year for Tolerance;

                        

     28 Resolution 217 A (III).

     29 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

     30 Resolution 2200 A (XXI).

     31 A/51/201.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 41

2. Takes note of the Declaration of Principles on Tolerance and Follow-up
Plan of Action for the United Nations Year for Tolerance, adopted by the States
members of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
on 16 November 1995;31

3. Expresses its appreciation for the contribution of the regional
conferences on tolerance and other relevant activities organized during the Year
at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Seoul; Sienna, Italy; Carthage, Tunisia; New Delhi;
Moscow and Yakutsk, Russian Federation; Tbilisi; and Istanbul, Turkey, to the
Declaration of Principles and Follow-up Plan of Action for the promotion of
tolerance;

4. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to take appropriate initiatives, including holding regional
meetings, to assure the follow-up and implementation of the outcome of the
regional conferences organized during the International Year for Tolerance and
to promote further the spirit instigated by those conferences;

5. Invites Member States to consider applying the Declaration of
Principles at the national level and to continue to undertake public information
campaigns in connection with the Follow-up Plan of Action aimed at the
realization of more tolerant societies;

6. Invites Member States to observe the International Day for Tolerance
annually on 16 November with appropriate activities directed towards both
educational establishments and the wider public;

7. Encourages the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to continue its activities aimed at reinforcing the struggle
against the rise of intolerance;

8. Recommends that interested intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations and specialized agencies exert efforts in their respective fields
to contribute to the long-term follow-up programme for the Year, including
celebration of the International Day for Tolerance, and to consider what further
contributions they can make to implement and disseminate the standards affirmed
in the Declaration of Principles;

9. Requests the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to continue to coordinate actions in support of tolerance promotion
and education in partnership with other United Nations agencies and regional,
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to make reports available
to the General Assembly on a biennial basis on the implementation of the
Declaration of Principles of Tolerance and Follow-up Plan of Action for the
United Nations Year for Tolerance;

10. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to consider, at an appropriate time, the possibility of organizing
an international conference to inform and mobilize public opinion, as well as
the United Nations system, in this regard;

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 42

11. Decides to consider the question of the follow-up to the United
Nations Year for Tolerance at its fifty-third session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Strengthening of the rule of law

The General Assembly,

Recalling that, by adopting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,32

Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in cooperation with the United
Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights
and fundamental freedoms,

Firmly convinced that the rule of law is an essential factor in the
protection of human rights, as stressed in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, and should continue to attract the attention of the international
community,

Convinced that through their own national legal and judicial systems States
must provide appropriate civil, criminal and administrative remedies for
violations of human rights,

Recognizing the importance of the role that can be played by the Centre for
Human Rights of the Secretariat in supporting national efforts to strengthen the
institutions of the rule of law,

Bearing in mind that, in its resolution 48/141 of 20 December 1993, the
General Assembly entrusted the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
with, inter alia, providing through the Centre and other appropriate
institutions advisory services and technical and financial assistance in the
field of human rights, enhancing international cooperation for the promotion and
protection of all human rights and coordinating human rights activities
throughout the United Nations system,

Recalling the recommendation of the World Conference on Human Rights that a
comprehensive programme be established within the United Nations and under the
coordination of the Centre with a view to helping States in the task of building
and strengthening adequate national structures that have a direct impact on the
overall observance of human rights and the maintenance of the rule of law,33

Recognizing that the High Commissioner/Centre for Human Rights remains the
focal point for coordinating system-wide attention for human rights, democracy
and the rule of law,

                        

     32 Resolution 217 A (III).

     33 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. II, para. 69.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 43

Recalling also its resolution 50/179 of 22 December 1995 and Commission on
Human Rights resolution 1996/56 of 19 April 1996,34

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General;35

2. Takes note with interest of the proposals contained in the report of
the Secretary-General for strengthening the programme of advisory services and
technical assistance of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat in order
to comply fully with the recommendations of the World Conference on Human Rights
concerning assistance to States in strengthening their institutions which uphold
the rule of law;

3. Praises the efforts made by the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights and the Centre to accomplish their ever-increasing tasks with the
limited financial and personnel resources at their disposal;

4. Expresses its deep concern at the scarcity of means at the disposal of
the Centre for the fulfilment of its tasks;

5. Notes that the programme of advisory services and technical assistance
does not have assistance funds sufficient to provide any substantial financial
assistance to national projects that have a direct impact on the realization of
human rights and the maintenance of the rule of law in countries that are
committed to those ends, but that face economic hardship;

6. Welcomes the consultations and contacts initiated by the High
Commissioner with other relevant bodies and programmes of the United Nations
system aiming at the enhancement of inter-agency coordination and cooperation in
providing assistance for the strengthening of the rule of law;

7. Encourages the High Commissioner to pursue these consultations, taking
into account the need to explore new synergies with other organs and agencies of
the United Nations system with a view to obtaining increased financial
assistance for human rights and the rule of law;

8. Also encourages the High Commissioner to continue to explore the
possibility of further contact with and support of financial institutions,
acting within their mandates, with a view to obtaining technical and financial
means to strengthen the capacity of the Centre to provide assistance to national
projects aiming at the realization of human rights and the maintenance of the
rule of law;

9. Requests the High Commissioner to accord high priority to the
technical cooperation activities undertaken by the Centre with regard to the
rule of law;

                        

     34 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

     35 A/51/555.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 44

10. Takes note with appreciation of the proposal of the High Commissioner
to convene a high-level meeting of relevant United Nations agencies and
programmes, in order to analyse means, modalities, financing and allocation of
responsibilities for the implementation of a comprehensive United Nations
programme of assistance for the rule of law, taking into account the experience
of the technical cooperation programme of the Centre;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session on the results of the contacts established
in accordance with the present resolution, as well as on any other developments
pertaining to the implementation of the above-mentioned recommendation of the
World Conference on Human Rights.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Human rights and extreme poverty

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,36 the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,37 the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights38 and other human rights instruments adopted by the
United Nations,

Considering the relevant provisions of the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights and of the Copenhagen
Declaration on Social Development and Programme of Action of the World Summit
for Social Development,39

Recalling its resolutions 44/148 of 15 December 1989, 44/212 of
22 December 1989, 45/199 of 21 December 1990, 49/179 of 23 December 1994 and
other relevant resolutions,

Recalling also its resolutions 47/196 of 22 December 1992, by which it
declared 17 October International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, 48/183 of
21 December 1993, by which it proclaimed 1996 International Year for the
Eradication of Poverty, and 50/107 of 20 December 1995, by which it proclaimed
the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty (1997-2006),

                        

     36 Resolution 217 A (III).

     37 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     38 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

     39 A/CONF.166/9, chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 45

Bearing in mind Commission on Human Rights resolutions 1992/11 of
21 February 1992,40 1993/13 of 26 February 1993,41 1994/12 of 25 February 1994,42

1995/16 of 24 February 199543 and 1996/10 of 11 April 1996,44 as well as
resolution 1996/23 of 29 August 1996 of the Subcommission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities,

Recalling its resolution 47/134 of 18 December 1992, in which it reaffirmed
that extreme poverty and exclusion from society constituted a violation of human
dignity and stressed the need for a complete and in-depth study of extreme
poverty, based on the experience and the thoughts of the poorest,

Recognizing that the existence of widespread extreme poverty inhibits the
full and effective enjoyment of human rights and might, in some situations,
constitute a threat to the right to life,

Deeply concerned that extreme poverty continues to spread in all countries
of the world, regardless of their economic, social and cultural situation, and
seriously affects the most vulnerable and disadvantaged individuals, families
and groups, who are thus hindered in the exercise of their human rights and
their fundamental freedoms,

Recognizing that the elimination of widespread poverty and the full
enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights are interrelated goals,

Welcoming the work of the Special Rapporteur on the question of human
rights and extreme poverty, and taking into account his final report on human
rights and extreme poverty,

1. Reaffirms that extreme poverty and exclusion from society constitute a
violation of human dignity and that urgent national and international action is
therefore required to eliminate them;

2. Reaffirms also that, in accordance with the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action, it is essential for States to foster participation by the
poorest people in the decision-making process in the communities in which they
live, in the promotion of human rights and in efforts to combat extreme poverty;

                        

     40 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992, Supplement
No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. II, sect. A.

     41 Ibid., 1993, Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

     42 Ibid., 1994, Supplement No. 3 (E/1994/23), chap. II, sect. A.

     43 Ibid., 1995, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/22 and Corr.1 and
2), chap. II, sect. A.

     44 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 23 (E/1996/23).

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 46

3. Notes with satisfaction that the Special Rapporteur, in the process of
preparing his final report, has implemented the recommendations of the
Commission on Human Rights by paying special attention to the efforts of the
poorest themselves and the conditions in which they can convey their
experiences;

4. Again calls upon States, the specialized agencies, United Nations
bodies and other international organizations, including intergovernmental
organizations, to give the necessary attention to this problem and to the
necessary follow-up to the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur as
contained in his final report;

5. Invites the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, within
the framework of the implementation of the United Nations Decade for the
Eradication of Poverty, to give appropriate attention to the question of human
rights and extreme poverty;

6. Notes with appreciation the specific action taken by the United
Nations Children's Fund to mitigate the effects of extreme poverty on children
and the efforts of the United Nations Development Programme to give priority to
the search for some means of alleviating poverty within the framework of the
relevant resolutions, and urges them to continue in this work;

7. Decides to consider this question further at its fifty-third session
under the sub-item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative
approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms".

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Situation of human rights in Cambodia

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles embodied in the Charter of the United
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights45 and the International
Covenants on Human Rights,46

Taking note of the Agreement on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the
Cambodia Conflict,47 signed in Paris on 23 October 1991, including part III
thereof, relating to human rights,

                        

     45 Resolution 217 A (III).

     46 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     47 A/46/608-S/23177, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 47

Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/54 of
19 April 1996,48 and recalling General Assembly resolution 50/178 of
22 December 1995 and previous relevant resolutions, including Commission on
Human Rights resolution 1993/6 of 19 February 1993,49 in which the Commission
recommended the appointment of a special representative in Cambodia, and the
subsequent appointment by the Secretary-General of a special representative,

Bearing in mind the role and responsibilities of the United Nations and the
international community in the process of the rehabilitation and reconstruction
of Cambodia,

Recognizing that the tragic recent history of Cambodia requires special
measures to assure the promotion and protection of the human rights of all
people in Cambodia and the non-return to the policies and practices of the past,
as stipulated in the Agreement signed in Paris on 23 October 1991,

Commending the continued operation in Cambodia of the office of the Centre
for Human Rights of the Secretariat,

Welcoming the understanding reached between the Special Envoy of the
Secretary-General and the Government of Cambodia in May 1995 regarding increased
consultations between the Centre for Human Rights and the Government of
Cambodia,

1. Requests the Secretary-General, through his Special Representative for
human rights in Cambodia, in collaboration with the Centre for Human Rights, to
assist the Government of Cambodia in ensuring the protection of the human rights
of all people in Cambodia and to ensure adequate resources, from within existing
resources, for the enhanced functioning of the operational presence in Cambodia
of the Centre for Human Rights;

2. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the role of the Centre
for Human Rights in assisting the Government and people of Cambodia in the
promotion and protection of human rights;50

3. Also welcomes the continuing role of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights in the promotion and protection of human rights in
Cambodia and the signing of a memorandum of understanding with the Government of
Cambodia to allow the office in Cambodia of the Centre for Human Rights to
continue to operate for the next two years and to maintain its technical
cooperation programmes;

                        

     48 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

     49 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement
No. 3 (E/1996/23), chap. II, sect. A.

     50 A/51/453.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 48

4. Commends the work of the former Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, Mr. Michael Kirby, in promoting and protecting human rights
in Cambodia, and welcomes the appointment by the Secretary-General of
Mr. Thomas Hammarberg as his new Special Representative;

5. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Special
Representative on the situation of human rights in Cambodia,51 and endorses his
recommendations and conclusions, including those aimed at combating child
prostitution and trafficking and ensuring the independence of the judiciary and
the establishment of the rule of law, freedom of expression and the promotion of
an effective, functioning multi-party democracy;

6. Requests the Special Representative, in collaboration with the office
in Cambodia of the Centre for Human Rights, to continue his evaluation of the
extent to which the recommendations made by the Special Representative in his
report, and those contained in reports of his predecessor, are followed up and
implemented;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary resources,
from within the regular budget of the United Nations, to enable the Special
Representative to continue to fulfil his tasks expeditiously;

8. Welcomes the efforts made by the Government of Cambodia to promote and
protect human rights, in particular in the area of human rights education and
the essential area of creating a functioning and impartial system of justice,
urges that efforts continue in this area, and encourages the Government to
improve the conditions of prisons;

9. Notes that communal elections are due to be held in 1997 and National
Assembly elections in 1998, and strongly urges the Government of Cambodia to
promote and uphold the effective functioning of multi-party democracy, including
the right to form political parties, stand for election and take part freely in
a representative Government, and to freedom of expression, in accordance with
the principles set out in paragraphs 2 and 4 of annex 5 to the Agreement signed
in Paris on 23 October 1991;

10. Welcomes the proposed measures outlined by the Government of Cambodia
in its comments52 on the report of the Special Representative to ensure that the
forthcoming communal and national elections are free and fair, that members of
the armed forces remain neutral during the election campaign, that the
individual vote is confidential and that local and international observers are
welcomed;

11. Calls upon the Government of Cambodia to investigate cases of violence
and intimidation directed at minor political parties and their supporters, as
well as against media personnel and offices, and to bring to justice those
responsible;

                        

     51 E/CN.4/1996/93.

     52 A/51/453/Add.1.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 49

12. Also calls upon the Government of Cambodia to ensure fair access to
government television and radio regardless of political affiliation and to
ensure that the people of Cambodia have access to a variety of information,
especially in the lead-up to the elections;

13. Commends the Government of Cambodia for its constructive approach to
the inclusion of Cambodian human rights non-governmental organizations in the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of Cambodia, and recommends that their skills
be drawn upon to assist in ensuring that forthcoming elections are free and
fair;

14. Expresses serious concern at the comments made by the Special
Representative concerning the continuing problem of impunity, whereby the courts
in several areas are reluctant or unable to charge members of the military,
police and other security forces for serious criminal offences, and encourages
the Government of Cambodia, as a matter of urgent priority, to address this
problem, which in effect places the military and police above the principle of
equality before the law;

15. Expresses grave concern about the atrocities that continue to be
committed by the Khmer Rouge, including the taking and killing of hostages and
other deplorable incidents detailed in the reports of the Special
Representatives;

16. Also expresses grave concern about the serious violations of human
rights as detailed in the reports of the Special Representative and his
predecessor, and calls upon the Government of Cambodia to prosecute in
accordance with the due process of the law and international standards relating
to human rights all those who have perpetrated human rights violations;

17. Calls upon the Government of Cambodia to ensure the full observance of
human rights for all persons within its jurisdiction in accordance with the
International Covenants on Human Rights and other human rights instruments to
which Cambodia is a party;

18. Urges the Government of Cambodia to give priority attention to
combating child prostitution and trafficking and, in this connection, to work
with the office in Cambodia of the Centre for Human Rights and non-governmental
organizations to develop an action plan;

19. Recognizes the seriousness with which the Government of Cambodia has
approached the preparation of its initial reports to the relevant treaty bodies,
and encourages the Government to continue its efforts to meet its reporting
obligations under international human rights instruments, drawing on the
assistance of the office in Cambodia of the Centre for Human Rights;

20. Encourages the Government of Cambodia to request the Centre for Human
Rights to provide advice and technical assistance with respect to the creation
of an independent national institution for the promotion and protection of human
rights;

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 50

21. Commends the ongoing efforts of the office in Cambodia of the Centre
for Human Rights in supporting and assisting the Government of Cambodia, as well
as non-governmental organizations and others involved in the promotion and
protection of human rights in cooperation with the Government of Cambodia;

22. Welcomes and encourages the efforts of individuals, non-governmental
organizations, Governments and international organizations involved in human
rights activities in Cambodia;

23. Notes with appreciation the use by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations Trust Fund for a Human Rights Education Programme in Cambodia to finance
the programme of activities of the office in Cambodia of the Centre for Human
Rights as defined in resolutions of the General Assembly and the Commission on
Human Rights, and invites Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, foundations and individuals to consider contributing funds to the
Trust Fund;

24. Requests the Centre for Human Rights, in cooperation with the relevant
specialized agencies and development programmes, to develop and implement
programmes, with the consent and cooperation of the Government of Cambodia, in
the priority areas identified by the Special Representative, paying particular
attention to vulnerable groups, including women, children, disabled persons and
minorities;

25. Expresses grave concern at the devastating consequences and
destabilizing effects of the indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines on
Cambodian society, encourages the Government of Cambodia to continue its support
and efforts for the removal of these mines, and urges the Government of Cambodia
to ban all anti-personnel landmines;

26. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the role of the Centre for Human Rights in assisting
the Government and the people of Cambodia in the promotion and protection of
human rights and on the recommendations made by the Special Representative on
matters within his mandate;

27. Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights
in Cambodia at its fifty-second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Right to development

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the Declaration on the Right to Development,53 which it
proclaimed at its forty-first session,

                        

     53 Resolution 41/128, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 51

Noting that 4 December 1996 marks the tenth anniversary of the adoption of
the Declaration on the Right to Development, which represents a landmark and a
meaningful instrument for countries and people worldwide,

Reaffirming the commitment contained in the Charter of the United Nations
to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,

Recalling its resolutions 45/97 of 14 December 1990, 46/123 of
17 December 1991, 47/123 of 18 December 1992, 48/130 of 20 December 1993, 49/183
of 23 December 1994 and 50/184 of 22 December 1995 and those of the Commission
on Human Rights relating to the right to development, and taking note of
Commission resolution 1996/15 of 11 April 1996,54

Recalling also the report on the Global Consultation on the Realization of
the Right to Development as a Human Right,55

Recalling further the principles proclaimed in the Rio Declaration on
Environment and Development of 14 June 1992,56

Mindful that the Commission on Human Rights continues to consider this
matter, which is directed towards the implementation and further enhancement of
the right to development,

Noting the need for coordination and cooperation throughout the United
Nations system for a more effective promotion of the right to development,

Recognizing that the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and
the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat have important roles to play in
the promotion and protection of the right to development,

Reaffirming the need for action at the national and international levels by
all States to realize all human rights, and the need for relevant evaluation
mechanisms to ensure the promotion, encouragement and reinforcement of the
principles contained in the Declaration on the Right to Development,

Welcoming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,57 which reaffirms the right to
development as a universal and inalienable right and an integral part of all

                        

     54 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

     55 E/CN.4/1990/9/Rev.1.

     56 See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1) (United
Nations publication, Sales No. 93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions
Adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex I.

     57 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 52

fundamental human rights and reaffirms that the human person is the central
subject of development,

Recalling that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action examined the
relationship between democracy, development and human rights, and recognizing
the importance of creating a favourable environment in which everyone may enjoy
their human rights as set out in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,

Recalling also that, in order to promote development, equal attention and
urgent consideration should be given to the implementation, promotion and
protection of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, and
recognizing that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and
interrelated and that the universality, objectivity, impartiality and
non-selectivity of the consideration of human rights issues must be ensured,

Noting that aspects of the Programme of Action of the International
Conference on Population and Development, adopted by the Conference on
13 September 1994,58 the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the
Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development, adopted by the
World Summit on 12 March 1995,59 the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for
Action, adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995,60

and the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), held at
Istanbul from 3 to 14 June 1996, are relevant to the universal realization of
the right to development, within the context of promoting and protecting all
human rights,

Expressing concern that obstacles to the realization of the right to
development still exist, at both the national and international levels, ten
years after the adoption of the Declaration on the Right to Development,

Noting that the first session of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts
established by the Commission on Human Rights to elaborate a strategy for the
implementation and promotion of the right to development, as set forth in the
Declaration on the Right to Development, in its integrated and multidimensional
aspects, was held at Geneva from 4 to 15 November 1996,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the right to
development,61 prepared pursuant to General Assembly resolution 50/184,

                        

     58 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development,
Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18),
chap. I, resolution I, annex.

     59 A/CONF.166/9, chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.

     60 A/CONF.177/20, chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.

     61 A/51/539.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 53

1. Reaffirms the importance of the right to development for every human
person and all peoples in all countries, in particular the developing countries,
as an integral part of fundamental human rights;

2. Urges States to pursue the promotion and protection of economic,
social, cultural, civil and political rights and the implementation of
comprehensive development programmes, integrating these rights into development
activities;

3. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the right to
development;

4. Reiterates its commitment to implementing the results of the World
Conference on Human Rights, which reaffirm that all human rights are universal,
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that democracy, development and
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent and
mutually reinforcing;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the Commission on Human
Rights at its fifty-third session a report on the implementation of Commission
resolution 1996/15;

6. Reiterates that lasting progress towards the implementation of the
right to development requires effective development policies at the national
level, as well as equitable economic relations and a favourable economic
environment at the international level;

7. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to consider carefully the
report of the first session of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts to
elaborate a strategy for the implementation and promotion of the right to
development, as set forth in the Declaration on the Right to Development, in its
integrated and multidimensional aspects, bearing in mind the conclusions of the
Working Group on the Right to Development, established by the Commission on
Human Rights in its resolution 1993/22 of 4 March 1993,62 and the conclusions of
the World Conference on Human Rights and of the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, the International Conference on Population and
Development, the World Summit for Social Development, the Fourth World
Conference on Women and the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II);

8. Notes the efforts made by the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights within his mandate, and encourages him to continue coordination of
the various activities with regard to the implementation of the Declaration on
the Right to Development, including a programmatic follow-up to the
establishment in the Centre for Human Rights of the secretariat of a new branch,
the primary responsibilities of which include the promotion of the right to
development, as part of the efforts to implement the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action;

                        

     62 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993, Supplement
No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 54

9. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, within
his mandate, to continue to take steps for the promotion and protection of the
right to development by, inter alia, working in conjunction with the Centre for
Human Rights and drawing on the expertise of the funds, programmes and
specialized agencies of the United Nations system related to the field of
development;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to inform the Commission on Human
Rights at its fifty-third session and the General Assembly at its fifty-second
session of the activities of the organizations, funds, programmes and
specialized agencies of the United Nations system on the implementation of the
Declaration on the Right to Development, as well as obstacles identified by them
to the realization of the right to development;

11. Calls upon all Member States to make further concrete efforts at the
national and international levels to remove the obstacles to the realization of
the right to development;

12. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to continue to make
proposals to the General Assembly through the Economic and Social Council, on
the future course of action on the question, in particular on practical measures
for the implementation and enhancement of the Declaration on the Right to
Development, including comprehensive and effective measures to eliminate
obstacles to its implementation, taking into account the conclusions and
recommendations of the Global Consultation on the Realization of the Right to
Development as a Human Right, the reports of the Working Group on the Right to
Development and the report of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts to
elaborate a strategy for the implementation and promotion of the right to
development;

13. Calls upon all States to address, within the declarations and
programmes of action adopted by the relevant international conferences convened
by the United Nations, the elements for the promotion and protection of the
principles of the right to development as set out in the Declaration on the
Right to Development;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its fifty-
second session;

15. Decides to consider this question at its fifty-second session under
the sub-item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative approaches
for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms".

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 55

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

Enhancement of international cooperation in the field
of human rights

The General Assembly,

Recognizing that the enhancement of international cooperation is essential
for the effective promotion and protection of human rights,

Reaffirming its commitment to promote international cooperation, as set
forth in the Charter of the United Nations, in particular in its Article 1.3, as
well as relevant provisions of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action63

to enhance genuine cooperation among Member States in the field of human rights,

Encouraging the Working Group on Human Rights of the Third Committee to
continue its efforts to implement paragraph 17 of part II of the Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action, giving due consideration to ways and means
to promote international cooperation in the field of human rights with a view to
accomplishing its mandate before the conclusion of the fifty-first session of
the General Assembly,

1. Supports the consultations initiated during the fifty-second session
of the Commission on Human Rights on the need to promote international
cooperation through genuine and constructive dialogue on the basis of mutual
respect and equality of States;

2. Invites the Commission on Human Rights to pursue the matter with a
view to reaching a successful conclusion of this initiative, preferably by the
fifty-third session of the Commission.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

Culture of peace

The General Assembly,

Recalling the preamble to the Charter of the United Nations and the
purposes and principles of the United Nations,

Recalling its resolution 50/173 of 22 December 1995 entitled "United
Nations Decade for Human Rights Education: towards a culture of peace", in
which it expressed satisfaction with the transdisciplinary project adopted by
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization entitled
"Towards a culture of peace", in particular unit 1, entitled "Education for
peace, human rights, democracy, international understanding and tolerance",

                        

     63 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 56

Considering that the Plan of Action for the United Nations Decade for Human
Rights Education, 1995-200464 will make a fundamental contribution to
understanding and peace and is consistent with the transdisciplinary project
entitled "Towards a culture of peace",

Taking note of the World Plan of Action on Education for Human Rights and
Democracy,65 adopted by the International Congress on Education for Human Rights
and Democracy convened by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization at Montreal from 8 to 11 March 1993, the Plan of Action
for the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education, 1995-2004, and all
relevant provisions included in the declarations and programmes of action
adopted in the series of international conferences held under the auspices of
the United Nations,

Emphasizing the need for a practical approach that can lead, through
sustainable human development and the promotion of tolerance, dialogue and
solidarity, to cooperation and the prevention of violence, and thus to the
consolidation of peace,

Considering the important results of the two international forums for a
culture of peace, hosted by El Salvador in February 1994 and by the Philippines
in November 1995, respectively,

Considering also the practical lessons learned from the National Culture of
Peace Programmes of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization in Burundi, the Congo, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mozambique, the
Philippines, Rwanda and Somalia, whereby projects in the fields of competence of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, in
particular in education, have been planned and are being implemented through a
process involving all parties concerned;

1. Welcomes the report of the Director-General of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on the transdisciplinary
project entitled "Towards a culture of peace";66

2. Expresses deep concern about the proliferation of violence and
conflicts of a diverse nature in various parts of the world;

3. Calls for the promotion of a culture of peace based on the principles
established in the Charter of the United Nations, the respect for human rights,
democracy, tolerance, dialogue, cultural diversity and reconciliation, and
efforts to promote development, education for peace, the free flow of
information and the wider participation of women, as an integral approach to
prevent violence and conflicts and to contribute to the creation of conditions
for peace and its consolidation;

                        

     64 A/49/26/Add.1-E/1994/110/Add.1, annex.

     65 See A/CONF.157/PC/42/Add.6.

     66 A/51/395, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 57

4. Welcomes with satisfaction the memorandum of understanding between the
Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, signed
in Paris on 19 October 1995;

5. Welcomes the creation of the Felix H. Boigny Prize on the Research for
Peace, adopted by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization at its twenty-fifth session, the biennial
prize awarded by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization for the teaching of human rights and the annual prize for peace
education;

6. Requests the Secretary-General, in coordination with the Director-
General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session on the
implementation of the present resolution and on the progress of educational
activities within the framework of the transdisciplinary project entitled
"Towards a culture of peace", including the preparation of elements for a draft
provisional declaration and programme of action on a culture of peace;

7. Decides to continue its consideration of the question of a culture of
peace under an appropriate agenda item at its fifty-second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIV

Regional arrangements for the promotion and
protection of human rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 32/127 of 16 December 1977 and all its subsequent
resolutions concerning regional arrangements for the promotion and protection of
human rights,

Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/51 of
9 March 1993,67

Bearing in mind the relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights
concerning advisory services in the field of human rights, including its most
recent resolution on that subject, 1996/55 of 19 April 1996,

Bearing in mind also the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,
adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,68

                        

     67 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993, Supplement
No. 3 (E/1996/23), chap. II, sect. A.

     68 A/CONF.157/42 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 58

Reaffirming that regional arrangements play a fundamental role in promoting
and protecting human rights and should reinforce universal human rights
standards, as contained in international human rights instruments, and their
protection,

Recalling that the World Conference on Human Rights reiterated the need to
consider the possibility of establishing regional and subregional arrangements
for the promotion and protection of human rights where they do not already
exist,

Recalling also that the World Conference recommended that more resources
should be made available for the strengthening or the establishment of regional
arrangements for the promotion and protection of human rights under the
programmes of advisory services and technical assistance of the Centre for Human
Rights of the Secretariat,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General,69

Noting the progress achieved so far in the promotion and protection of
human rights at the regional level under the auspices of the United Nations, the
specialized agencies and the regional intergovernmental organizations,

Noting also the growing exchanges between the United Nations and the bodies
created by the United Nations in accordance with the treaties dealing with human
rights on the one hand and the intergovernmental regional organizations on the
other in order to promote the mutual exchange of information between these
bodies and the conclusion of regional arrangements for the promotion and the
protection of human rights,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;

2. Welcomes the continuing cooperation and assistance of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights of the
Secretariat in the further strengthening of the existing regional arrangements
and regional machinery for the promotion and protection of human rights, in
particular with regard to advisory services and technical assistance, public
information and education, with a view to exchanging information and experience
in the field of human rights;

3. Welcomes also, in that respect, the close cooperation of the High
Commissioner/Centre for Human Rights in the organization of regional and
subregional training courses and workshops in the field of human rights, high-
level government expert meetings and a regional conference of national human
rights institutions, aiming at creating greater understanding of the promotion
and protection of human rights issues in the regions, improving procedures and
examining the various systems for the promotion and protection of universally
accepted human rights standards and at identifying obstacles to ratification of
the principal international human rights treaties and strategies to overcome
them;

                        

     69 A/51/480.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 59

4. Stresses the importance of the programme of advisory services in the
field of human rights, and renews its appeal to all Governments to consider
making use of the possibilities offered by the United Nations, under this
programme, of organizing information or training courses at the national level
for government personnel on the application of international human rights
standards and the experience of relevant international bodies, and notes with
satisfaction, in that respect, the establishment of technical cooperation
projects with several Governments of the region of Asia and the Pacific;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, as foreseen in programme 35, Promotion
and protection of human rights, of the medium-term plan for the period
1992-1997,70 to continue to strengthen exchanges between the United Nations and
regional intergovernmental organizations dealing with human rights;

6. Welcomes the growing exchanges between the High Commissioner/Centre
for Human Rights and several regional intergovernmental organizations, as well
as between the bodies created by the United Nations in accordance with the
treaties dealing with human rights and the Council of Europe;

7. Invites States in areas where regional arrangements in the field of
human rights do not yet exist to consider concluding agreements with a view to
the establishment within their respective regions of suitable regional machinery
for the promotion and protection of human rights;

8. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue to pay special
attention to the most appropriate ways of assisting, at their request, countries
of the different regions under the programme of advisory services and to make,
where necessary, relevant recommendations;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its fifty-third session a report on the state of regional arrangements for the
promotion and protection of human rights and to include therein the results of
action taken in pursuance of the present resolution;

10. Decides to consider this question further at its fifty-third session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XV

Human rights and unilateral coercive measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming the pertinent principles and provisions contained in the
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States proclaimed by the General
Assembly in its resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, in particular

                        

     70 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-fifth Session,
Supplement No. 6 (A/45/6/Rev.1), vol. II.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 60

article 32 thereof, in which it is declared that no State may use or encourage
the use of economic, political or any other type of measures to coerce another
State in order to obtain from it the subordination of the exercise of its
sovereign rights,

Taking note of the report submitted by the Secretary-General pursuant to
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/45,71

Recognizing the universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated
character of all human rights, and, in this regard, reaffirming the right to
development as an integral part of all human rights,

Recalling that the World Conference on Human Rights called upon States to
refrain from any unilateral coercive measure not in accordance with
international law and the Charter of the United Nations that creates obstacles
to trade relations among States and impedes the full realization of all human
rights,72

Bearing in mind all the references to this question in the Copenhagen
Declaration on Social Development of the World Social Summit, adopted by the
World Summit on 12 March 1995,73 the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for
Action, adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995,74

and the Istanbul Declaration on Human Settlements and the Habitat Agenda,
adopted by the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) on
14 June 1996,75

Deeply concerned that, despite the recommendations adopted on this issue by
the General Assembly and recent major United Nations conferences, and contrary
to general international law and the Charter of the United Nations, unilateral
coercive measures continue to be promulgated and implemented with all their
extraterritorial effects, inter alia, on the economic and social development of
targeted countries and peoples and individuals under the jurisdiction of other
States,

1. Urges all States to refrain from adopting or implementing any
unilateral measure not in accordance with international law and the Charter of
the United Nations, in particular those of a coercive nature with all their
extraterritorial effects, which create obstacles to trade relations among
States, thus impeding the full realization of the rights set forth in the

                        

     71 E/CN.4/1996/45 and Add.1.

     72 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. II, para. 31.

     73 A/CONF.166/9, chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.

     74 A/CONF.177/20, chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.

     75 A/CONF.165/14, chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 61

Universal Declaration of Human Rights76 and other international human rights
instruments, in particular the right of individuals and peoples to development;

2. Rejects unilateral coercive measures with all their extraterritorial
effects as tools for political or economic pressure against any country, in
particular against developing countries, because of their negative effects on
the realization of all the human rights of vast sectors of their populations, in
particular children, women and the elderly;

3. Calls upon Member States that have initiated such measures to commit
themselves to their obligations and responsibilities arising from the
international human rights instruments to which they are party by revoking such
measures at the earliest time possible;

4. Reaffirms, in this context, the right of all peoples to self-
determination, by virtue of which they freely determine their political status
and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development;

5. Urges the Commission on Human Rights to take fully into account the
negative impact of unilateral coercive measures, including enactment of national
laws and their extraterritorial application, in its task concerning the
implementation of the right to development;

6. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in
discharging his functions relating to the promotion, realization and protection
of the right to development, to give urgent consideration to the present
resolution in his annual report to the General Assembly;

7. Requests Member States to notify the Secretary-General about the
implications and negative effects of such measures on their populations in the
various aspects referred to in the present resolution;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution;

9. Decides to examine this question, on a priority basis, at its fifty-
second session under the sub-item entitled "Human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms".

                        

     76 Resolution 217 A (III).

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 62

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVI

United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education and public
information activities in the field of human rights

The General Assembly,

Guided by the fundamental and universal principles enshrined in the Charter
of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,77 according
to article 26 of which "education shall be directed to the full development of
the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms", and the provisions of other international human rights
instruments, such as those of article 13 of the International Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights78 and article 28 of the Convention on the
Rights of the Child,79 that reflect the aims of the aforementioned article,

Recalling the relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and the
Commission on Human Rights concerning the World Public Information Campaign on
Human Rights, the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education, 1995-2004,
the project of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization entitled "Towards a culture of peace", the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on
25 June 1993,80 and the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,

Believing that the World Public Information Campaign on Human Rights is a
valuable complement to the activities of the United Nations aimed at the further
promotion and protection of human rights, and recalling the importance attached
by the World Conference on Human Rights to human rights education and
information,

Convinced that human rights education should involve more than the
provision of information and should constitute a comprehensive lifelong process
by which people at all levels of development and in all societies learn respect
for the dignity of others and the means and methods of ensuring that respect,

Recognizing that human rights education and information are essential to
the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that carefully
designed programmes of teaching, learning, training and sharing of experiences,
materials and information can have a catalytic effect on national, regional and
international initiatives to promote and protect human rights and prevent human
rights violations,

                        

     77 Resolution 217 A (III).

     78 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     79 Resolution 44/25, annex.

     80 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 63

Convinced also that human rights education and information contribute to a
concept of development consistent with the dignity of women and men of all ages
that takes into account the diverse segments of society such as children,
indigenous people, minorities and disabled persons,

Taking into account the efforts to promote human rights education made by
educators and non-governmental organizations in all parts of the world, as well
as by intergovernmental organizations, including the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, the International Labour Organization and
the United Nations Children's Fund,

Convinced further that each woman, man and child, to realize their full
human potential, must be made aware of all their human rights and fundamental
freedoms,

Recognizing the invaluable and creative role that non-governmental
organizations and community-based organizations can play in disseminating public
information and engaging in human rights education, especially at the grass-
roots level and in remote and rural communities,

Aware of the potential supportive role of the private sector in
implementing at all levels of society the Plan of Action for the United Nations
Decade for Human Rights Education, 1995-200481 and the World Public Information
Campaign, through creative initiatives and financial support for governmental
and non-governmental activities,

Convinced that the effectiveness of existing human rights education and
public information activities would be enhanced by better coordination and
cooperation at the national, regional and international levels,

Recalling that it is within the responsibility of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights to coordinate relevant United Nations education
and public information programmes in the field of human rights,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights on the implementation of the Plan of Action for
the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education,82 and of the report of the
Secretary-General on the development of public information activities in the
field of human rights, including the World Public Information Campaign on Human
Rights;83

2. Welcomes the steps taken by Governments, intergovernmental
organizations and non-governmental organizations to implement the Plan of
Action, as indicated in the report of the High Commissioner;

                        

     81 A/49/261-E/1994/110/Add.1, annex.

     82 A/51/506, annex.

     83 A/51/558.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 64

3. Urges all Governments to inform their communities about the World
Public Information Campaign on Human Rights and the Decade and to contribute
further to the implementation of the Plan of Action, in particular by
establishing, in accordance with national conditions, broadly representative
national committees for human rights education and training centres for human
rights education or, where such bodies exist, to strengthen them to work towards
the elaboration and implementation of an action-oriented national plan for
information and education in human rights;

4. Also urges Governments to encourage, support and involve national and
local non-governmental organizations and community-based organizations in the
implementation of their national action plans;

5. Appeals to Governments, in accordance with their national conditions,
to accord priority to the dissemination in their relevant national and local
languages of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International
Covenants on Human Rights and other human rights instruments, human rights
materials and training manuals, as well as reports of States parties under the
human rights treaties, and to provide information and education in those
languages on the practical ways in which national and international institutions
and procedures may be utilized to ensure the effective implementation of those
instruments;

6. Welcomes the efforts made by the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights, together with the Department of Public Information of the
Secretariat to increase cooperation with the media, including by the provision
of timely and relevant information on human rights issues;

7. Urges the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat to
continue to utilize United Nations information centres for the timely
dissemination, within their designated areas of activity, of basic information,
reference and audio-visual materials on human rights and fundamental freedoms,
including the reports of States parties under human rights instruments and, to
this end, to ensure that the information centres are supplied with adequate
quantities of those materials;

8. Requests the High Commissioner/Centre for Human Rights of the
Secretariat to continue to coordinate the implementation of the Plan of Action
to ensure maximum effectiveness and efficiency in the use, processing,
management and distribution of information and educational materials, and to
continue to coordinate and harmonize human rights information strategies within
the United Nations system;

9. Encourages the High Commissioner/Centre for Human Rights to continue
the development of training courses and materials, including targeted training
manuals for professional audiences, as well as the dissemination of human rights
information materials as a component of technical assistance projects,
supplemented by electronic means wherever possible, taking particular account of
the human rights needs of women, children, remote or isolated communities and
persons with low levels of literacy;

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 65

10. Requests the human rights mechanisms to place emphasis on the
promotion and implementation of programmes of information and education on human
rights;

11. Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Centre for
Human Rights, to consider appropriate ways and means, including the possibility
of establishing a voluntary fund to support human rights activities, including
those undertaken by non-governmental organizations;

12. Invites the specialized agencies and relevant United Nations
programmes to contribute, within their respective spheres of competence, to the
implementation of the Plan of Action for Human Rights Education and the World
Public Information Campaign on Human Rights;

13. Calls upon international, regional and national non-governmental
organizations and intergovernmental organizations, in particular those concerned
with women, labour, development, food, housing, education, health care and the
environment, as well as all other social justice groups, human rights advocates,
educators, religious organizations and the media, to undertake specific
activities of formal, non-formal and informal education, including cultural
events, alone and in cooperation with the High Commissioner/Centre for Human
Rights, in implementing the Plan of Action;

14. Stresses the need for close collaboration between the High
Commissioner/Centre for Human Rights and the Department of Public Information in
the implementation of the World Public Information Campaign on Human Rights and
the Plan of Action and the need to harmonize their activities with those of
other organizations such as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization in the project entitled "Towards a culture of peace" and
the International Committee of the Red Cross and relevant non-governmental
organizations with regard to the dissemination of information on international
humanitarian law;

15. Encourages the High Commissioner/Centre for Human Rights to consider
the promotion of educational and cultural activities throughout the world in
accordance with the Plan of Action and the World Public Information Campaign on
Human Rights when preparing for the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

16. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the
attention of all members of the international community and to intergovernmental
and non-governmental organizations concerned with human rights education and
public information and to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-second
session a comprehensive report on the implementation of the present resolution
for consideration under the item entitled "Human rights questions".

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 66

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVII

               Strengthening of United Nations action in the human
               rights field through the promotion of international
               cooperation and the importance of non-selectivity, 

impartiality and objectivity

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind that among the purposes of the United Nations are those of
developing friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle
of equal rights and self-determination of peoples and taking other appropriate
measures to strengthen universal peace, as well as achieving international
cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural
or humanitarian character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex,
language or religion,

Desirous of achieving further progress in international cooperation in
promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Considering that such international cooperation should be based on the
principles embodied in international law, especially the Charter of the United
Nations, as well as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,84 the
International Covenants on Human Rights85 and other relevant instruments,

Deeply convinced that United Nations action in this field should be based
not only on a profound understanding of the broad range of problems existing in
all societies but also on full respect for the political, economic and social
realities of each of them, in strict compliance with the purposes and principles
of the Charter and for the basic purpose of promoting and encouraging respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms through international cooperation,

Reaffirming all its resolutions in this regard,

Reaffirming also the importance of ensuring the universality, objectivity
and non-selectivity of the consideration of human rights issues, as affirmed in
the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference
on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,86 

Affirming the importance of the objectivity, independence and discretion of
the special rapporteurs and representatives on thematic issues and countries, as
well as of the members of the working groups, in carrying out their mandates,

                        

     84 Resolution 217 A (III).

     85 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     86 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 67

Underlining the obligation that Governments have to promote and protect
human rights and to carry out the responsibilities that they have undertaken
under international law, especially the Charter, as well as various
international instruments in the field of human rights,

1. Reiterates that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and self-
determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, all
peoples have the right freely to determine, without external interference, their
political status and to pursue their economic, social and cultural development,
and that every State has the duty to respect that right within the provisions of
the Charter, including respect for territorial integrity;

2. Reaffirms that it is a purpose of the United Nations and the task of
all Member States, in cooperation with the Organization, to promote and
encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and to remain
vigilant with regard to violations of human rights wherever they occur;

3. Calls upon all Member States to base their activities for the
protection and promotion of human rights, including the development of further
international cooperation in this field, on the Charter of the United Nations,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,84 the International Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,85 the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights85 and other relevant international instruments, and to refrain
from activities that are inconsistent with that international framework;

4. Considers that international cooperation in this field should make an
effective and practical contribution to the urgent task of preventing mass and
flagrant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and to the
strengthening of international peace and security;

5. Also reaffirms that the promotion, protection and full realization of
all human rights and fundamental freedoms, as legitimate concerns of the world
community, should be guided by the principles of non-selectivity, impartiality
and objectivity, and should not be used for political ends;

6. Requests all human rights bodies within the United Nations system, as
well as the special rapporteurs and representatives, independent experts and
working groups, to take duly into account the contents of the present resolution
in carrying out their mandates;

7. Expresses its conviction that an unbiased and fair approach to human
rights issues contributes to the promotion of international cooperation as well
as to the effective promotion, protection and realization of human rights and
fundamental freedoms;

8. Stresses, in this context, the continuing need for impartial and
objective information on the political, economic and social situations and
events of all countries;

9. Invites Member States to consider adopting, as appropriate, within the
framework of their respective legal systems and in accordance with their
obligations under international law, especially the Charter, and international

/...



A/51/619/Add.2
English
Page 68

human rights instruments, the measures that they may deem appropriate to achieve
further progress in international cooperation in promoting and encouraging
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;

10. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to take duly into account the
present resolution and to consider further proposals for the strengthening of
United Nations action in the human rights field through the promotion of
international cooperation and the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality
and objectivity;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to consult Member States,
intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations on ways and
means for the strengthening of United Nations action in the human rights field,
including the promotion of international cooperation and the importance of
non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity, and to present a comprehensive
report on this issue to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session;

12. Decides to consider this matter at its fifty-second session under the
item entitled "Human rights questions".

-----


