





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/51/L.16
11 November 1996

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 32

ZONE OF PEACE AND COOPERATION OF THE SOUTH ATLANTIC

Angola, Argentina, Benin, Brazil, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Congo,
Côte d’Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Namibia, Nigeria, Sao Tome and Principe,
Sierra Leone, South Africa, Togo, Uruguay and Zaire: draft

resolution

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986, in which it solemnly
declared the Atlantic Ocean, in the region between Africa and South America, the
"Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic",

Recalling also its subsequent resolutions on the matter, including
resolution 45/36 of 27 November 1990, in which it reaffirmed the determination
of the States of the zone to enhance and accelerate their cooperation in the
political, economic, scientific, cultural and other spheres,

Reaffirming that the questions of peace and security and those of
development are interrelated and inseparable, and that cooperation for peace and
development among States of the region will promote the objectives of the zone
of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic,

Aware of the importance that the States of the zone attach to the region’s
environment, and recognizing the treat that pollution from any source poses to
the marine and coastal environment, its ecological balance and its resources,

1. Reaffirms the importance of the purposes and objectives of the zone of
peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic as a basis for the promotion of
cooperation among the countries of the region;

2. Calls upon all States to cooperate in the promotion of the objectives
established in the declaration of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South

96-31469 (E) 121196 /...



A/51/L.16
English
Page 2

Atlantic and to refrain from any action inconsistent with those objectives and
with the Charter of the United Nations and relevant resolutions of the
Organization, particularly action which may create or aggravate situations of
tension and potential conflict in the region;

3. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General of
7 October 1996, 1/ submitted in accordance with its resolution 50/18 of
27 November 1995;

4. Recalls the agreement reached at the third meeting of the States
members of the zone, held at Brasilia in 1994, to encourage democracy and
political pluralism and, in accordance with the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human rights on 25 June 1993, 2/
to promote and defend all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to cooperate
towards the achievement of those goals;

5. Welcomes with satisfaction the holding of the fourth meeting of the
States members of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic at
Somerset West, South Africa, on 1 and 2 April 1996, and takes note of the Final
Declaration, the decision on drug trafficking, the decision on the protection of
the marine environment and the decision on illegal fishing activities in the
zone, adopted at the meeting;

6. Welcomes the progress towards the full entry into force of the Treaty
for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean
(Treaty of Tlatelolco), and the conclusion of the "African Nuclear-Weapon-Free
Zone Treaty" (Treaty of Pelindaba);

7. Welcomes the efforts of the Government of Angola to implement the
Lusaka Protocol, expresses its deep concern at the delay in fully implementing
the Lusaka protocol and calls upon the National Union for the Total Independence
of Angola to fulfil immediately the tasks enumerated in the "Mediation Document"
formulated by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in
consultation with the three observer States, as contained in Security Council
resolution 1075 (1996) of 11 October 1996;

8. Reaffirms its willingness to contribute by all means at its disposal
to an effective and lasting peace in Angola;

9. Urges the international community to fulfil expeditiously its pledges
to provide assistance to facilitate the rehabilitation of the Angolan national
economy and the resettlement of displaced persons, and stresses the importance
of such assistance at this time in order to consolidate the gains in the peace
process;

10. Welcomes the outcome of the summit meeting of the Economic Community
of West African States Committee of Nine on Liberia, which revalidated the Abuja

1/ A/51/458.

2/ A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/51/L.16
English
Page 3

Agreement and, inter alia, foresees the holding of democratic elections in
Liberia by 30 May 1997;

11. Commends and encourages Nigeria in its capacity as chair of the
Committee of Nine, as well as all the members of the ECOWAS, to pursue positive
efforts towards peace in Liberia, and requests the international community to
support the endeavours of the new chairperson of the Council of States of the
Liberian National Transitional Government and to provide the necessary
assistance to the Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group to
enable it to carry out its mandate;

12. Commends the efforts of Member States and humanitarian organizations
to render humanitarian assistance to Angola and Liberia, and urges them to
continue to provide and to increase such assistance;

13. Affirms the importance of the South Atlantic to global maritime and
commercial transactions and its determination to preserve the region for all
peaceful purposes and activities protected by international law, in particular
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea;

14. Welcomes the offer by Argentina to host the fifth meeting of the
States members of the zone;

15. Requests the relevant organizations, organs and bodies of the United
Nations system to render all appropriate assistance which States of the zone may
seek in their joint efforts to implement the declaration of the zone of peace
and cooperation of the South Atlantic;

16. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the implementation of
resolution 41/11 and subsequent resolutions on the matter under review and to
submit a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, taking into
account, inter alia, the views expressed by Member States;

17. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session the item entitled "Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic".

-----


