


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
Limited

A/51/L.64
13 December 1996

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 11

REPORT OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL

Colombia*:  draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 47/233 of 17 August 1993 and 48/264 of
29 July 1994 on the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly,

Reiterating the importance of the objectives and principles relevant to the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly as set out in resolutions
47/233 and 48/264,

Reaffirming the need to improve the reporting procedures of the Security
Council,

Bearing in mind the ongoing work of the Open-ended Working Group on the
Strengthening of the United Nations System and the Open-ended Working Group on
the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council,

Taking note of the ongoing efforts of the Security Council to enhance the
transparency of its working methods,

1. Stresses the importance of enhanced interaction and an effective
relationship between the General Assembly and other principal organs, in
particular the Security Council, in accordance with the relevant provisions of
the Charter of the United Nations;

                        

* On behalf of the States Members that are members of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries.

96-36395 (E) 131296 /...



A/51/L.64
English
Page 2

2. Takes note of the report of the Security Council to the General
Assembly at its fifty-first session,1 as well as the views expressed thereon in
the course of the Assembly's consideration of the report;

3. Encourages the Council, in the submission of its reports to the
Assembly, to provide, in a timely manner, a substantive, analytical and material
account of its work;

4. Calls upon the Security Council to adopt the following measures,
inter alia, in connection with the content of its future reports to the General
Assembly;

(a) To include, as appropriate, information on the consultations of the
whole undertaken prior to action or deliberation by the Council on issues within
its mandate and on the process leading to such action;

(b) To include the decisions, recommendations or progress of work of the
subsidiary organs of the Security Council, in particular the sanctions
committees;

(c) To highlight the extent to which resolutions of the General Assembly
on issues falling within the scope of the General Assembly and the Security
Council have been taken into account by the Council in its decision-making;

(d) To strengthen further the section in the report on the steps taken by
the Council to improve its working methods;

(e) To include information on requests received under Article 50 of the
Charter and actions taken by the Council thereon;

5. Encourages the Security Council to provide special reports in
accordance with Articles 15 and 24 of the Charter;

6. Requests that the annual report of the Security Council be made
available before the beginning of the general debate of the General Assembly;

7. Requests the President of the General Assembly to raise with the
President of the Security Council during their monthly informal meeting, and
when deemed appropriate, the matters covered by the present resolution and to
report to the Assembly on the steps taken by the Security Council in this
regard;

8. Invites the Security Council, through an appropriate procedure or
mechanism, to update the General Assembly on a regular basis on the steps it has
taken or is contemplating with respect to improving its reporting to the
Assembly.

-----

                        

     1 A/51/2; to be issued in final form as Official Records of the General
Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 2.


