


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/619/Add.3
4 December 1996

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 110 (c)

HUMAN RIGHTS QUESTIONS: HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATIONS AND
REPORTS OF SPECIAL RAPPORTEURS AND REPRESENTATIVES

Report of the Third Committee (Part IV)*

Rapporteur: Ms. Victoria SANDRU (Romania)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1996, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-first session the item entitled "Human rights questions: human rights
situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives" and to
allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. For the documents before the Committee under this item, see document
A/51/619.

3. The Committee considered the item jointly with sub-items 110 (b), (d) and
(e) at its 38th to 52nd meetings, on 14, 15, 18 to 22, 25 and 26 November 1996,
and took action on the item at its 53rd to 56th meetings, on 26, 27 and
29 November. An account of the Committee's discussion is contained in the
relevant summary records (A/C.3/51/SR.38-56).

4. At the 38th meeting, on 14 November, the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights made an introductory statement.

________________________

* The report of the Committee on agenda item 110 will be issued in six
parts, under the symbol A/51/619 and Add.1-5.

96-34956 (E) 101296 /...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.40

5. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Ireland, on
behalf of Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands,
Norway, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation
of human rights in Iraq" (A/C.3/51/L.40). Subsequently, Israel, Poland,
San Marino and the United States of America joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

6. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Ireland orally
revised it by replacing operative paragraph 4, which had read:

"4. Expresses its grave concern at the action of military forces,
including heavy artillery and tanks, against civilian targets in northern
Iraq, resulting in numerous deaths and a large number of arrests and
missing persons",

with the following text:

"4. Expresses its grave concern at the action of military forces in
northern Iraq, including heavy artillery and tanks, against civilian
targets, resulting in numerous deaths and a large number of arrests and
missing persons".

7. At the 55th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Ireland further
orally revised the draft resolution by deleting operative paragraph 4.

8. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Iraq,
Ireland (on behalf of the European Union), Egypt and Cuba (see A/C.3/51/SR.55).

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.40,
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 102 to 2, with 51 abstentions (see
para. 71, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:1

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada,
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,

                        

     1 The representative of Portugal subsequently indicated that had he been
present he would have voted in favour.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 3

Kazakstan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, The
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Venezuela, Zambia.

Against: Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Sudan.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, China, Côte
d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Egypt,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India,
Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam,
Zimbabwe.

10. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Syrian Arab Republic, the Sudan and Kuwait (see
A/C.3/51/SR.55).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.41 and Rev.1

11. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Ireland, on
behalf of Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, San Marino, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran" (A/C.3/51/L.41), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenants on Human
Rights,

"Recalling that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,
adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to
25 June 1993, reaffirmed that human rights and fundamental freedoms were

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 4

the birthright of all human beings and that their protection and promotion
was the first responsibility of Governments,

"Reaffirming that all Member States have a duty to fulfil the
obligations they have undertaken under the various international
instruments in this field,

"Mindful that the Islamic Republic of Iran is a party to the
International Covenants on Human Rights,

"Recalling the appointment by the Chairman of the Commission on Human
Rights of Mr. Maurice Danby Copithorne as Special Representative of the
Commission on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran,

"Recalling its previous resolutions expressing concern at the
violations of human rights by the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran, including the most recent, resolution 50/188 of 22 December 1995, and
the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights, including the most
recent, resolution 1996/84 of 24 April 1996, and of the Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, including the
most recent, resolution 1996/7 of 20 August 1996,

"Welcoming the cooperation extended by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran to the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights on religious intolerance and the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on freedom of opinion and expression, who have
been able to visit the Islamic Republic of Iran, and bearing in mind the
reports of those Special Rapporteurs on their visits,2

"Taking note of the interim report of the Special Representative of
11 October 1996,3 and his intention to present a substantive report to the
Commission on Human Rights,

"Noting with interest the observation by the Special Representative in
his report regarding the requests by the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran for technical assistance and advisory services from the Office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human
Rights of the Secretariat at Geneva, as well as from the Crime Prevention
and Criminal Justice Branch of the Secretariat at Vienna,

"Considering that continued international scrutiny of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in the Islamic Republic of Iran is warranted and that
the subject should remain on the agenda of the General Assembly,

"1. Expresses its concern at the continuing violations of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, in particular the high number of

                        

     2 E/CN.4/1996/95/Add.2 and Corr.1 and E/CN.4/1996/39/Add.2.

     3 A/51/479.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 5

executions in the absence of guarantees of due process of law, cases of
torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the
failure to meet international standards with regard to the administration
of justice, violations of the right to peaceful assembly and restrictions
on the freedom of expression, thought, opinion and the press;

"2. Also expresses its concern at the grave breaches of human rights
of the Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of Iran and situations of
discrimination against the members of this religious community, as well as
at the discriminatory treatment of minorities by reason of their religious
beliefs, including lack of adequate protection for the Christian
minorities, some members of which have been the target of intimidation and
assassination;

"3. Further expresses its concern at the widespread discrimination
against women in the Islamic Republic of Iran and the lack of full and
equal enjoyment by women of human rights, and calls upon the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran to take effective measures to eliminate all
discrimination against women;

"4. Urges the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a State
party to the International Covenants on Human Rights, to abide by its
freely undertaken obligations under the Covenants and under other
international instruments on human rights, and to ensure that all
individuals within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, including
members of religious groups and persons belonging to minorities, enjoy all
the rights enshrined in those instruments;

"5. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
implement fully the conclusions and recommendations of the Special
Rapporteur on religious intolerance relating to the Baha'is and to other
minority religious groups, including Christians;

"6. Expresses its grave concern at the significant toughening of
criminal legislation and its application in Iran and in particular at the
incidence of capital punishment imposed for non-violent crimes, in
particular cases of apostasy, in violation of the relevant provisions of
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the United
Nations safeguards;

"7. Expresses its concern at the harassment and persecution of
persons, including writers and members of the press, seeking to exercise
their freedom of expression;

"8. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
implement existing agreements with international humanitarian
organizations;

"9. Expresses its grave concern that there are continuing threats to
the life of Mr. Salman Rushdie, as well as to individuals associated with
his work, which appear to have the support of the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran;

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 6

"10. Deplores the continuing violence against Iranians outside the
Islamic Republic of Iran, and urges the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran to refrain from activities against members of the Iranian
opposition living abroad and the harassment of their relatives within Iran,
and to cooperate wholeheartedly with the authorities of other countries in
investigating and punishing offences reported by them;

"11. Welcomes the cooperation extended by the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to the Special Representative, who has been able
to conduct a preliminary visit to the Islamic Republic of Iran;

"12. Expresses its hope that the Special Representative will again be
allowed to visit the Islamic Republic of Iran in the discharge of his
mandate;

"13. Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance
to the Special Representative to enable him to discharge his mandate fully;

"14. Decides to continue the examination of the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Baha'is, during its fifty-second session under the item
entitled 'Human rights questions', on the basis of the report of the
Special Representative and in the light of additional elements provided by
the Commission on Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council."

12. At its 56th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran" (A/C.3/51/L.41/Rev.1) submitted by Ireland on behalf of the sponsors of
draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.41. Subsequently, Japan, Poland and the United
States of America joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

13. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Ireland
(on behalf of the European Union), the Islamic Republic of Iran, Algeria and
Egypt (see A/C.3/51/SR.56).

14. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.41/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 78 to 26, with 49 abstentions (see
para. 71, draft resolution II). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation,
Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, The former

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 7

Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia.

Against: Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brunei
Darussalam, China, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, Gambia, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Myanmar,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Viet Nam.

Abstaining: Albania, Angola, Bahrain, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
Côte d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Mali,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Philippines,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, South Africa, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Zimbabwe.

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of South
Africa made a statement (see A/C.3/51/SR.56).

C. Draft decision A/C.3/51/L.43 and draft resolution
    A/C.3/51/L.44 

16. At its 47th meeting, on 21 November, the Committee had before it a draft
decision entitled "Situation of human rights in Estonia and Latvia"
(A/C.3/51/L.43), submitted by Estonia and Latvia, which read:

"The General Assembly takes note of the information provided by the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, on behalf of the
Secretary-General, in relation to the situation of human rights in Estonia
and Latvia, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 48/155 of
20 December 1993, and decides to conclude its consideration of this
matter."

17. At the same meeting, the Committee had before it a draft resolution
entitled "Situation of human rights in Estonia and Latvia" (A/C.3/51/L.44)
submitted by the Russian Federation, which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 47/115 of 16 December 1992 and 48/155 of
20 December 1993,

"Taking into account relevant provisions of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights,

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 8

"Mindful of the concluding observations of the Human Rights Committee
on the initial reports of Estonia4 and Latvia,5

"Having considered the oral information provided by the Secretary-
General pursuant to resolution 48/155,

"1. Welcomes the efforts undertaken by the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of the Baltic Sea States, in
particular with regard to improving the situation of the so-called
'non-citizens' in Estonia and Latvia, and encourages further efforts of the
relevant regional organizations, as well as bilateral efforts of interested
countries, in this direction;

"2. Calls upon the Governments of Estonia and Latvia to take
necessary legislative and administrative measures to resolve the remaining
issues in accordance with the recommendations of international and regional
bodies;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to monitor the efforts undertaken
in this regard at regional, bilateral and other levels and to inform the
Assembly at its fifty-third session on progress achieved in the situation
of human rights in Estonia and Latvia."

18. At its 55th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee adopted, by consensus a
draft decision proposed orally by the Chairperson (see para. 72, draft
decision I).

19. At the same meeting, in the light of the adoption of the draft decision
proposed orally by the Chairperson, the Committee decided to take no action on
draft decision A/C.3/51/L.43 and draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.44.

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.49

20. At its 48th meeting, on 22 November, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Afghanistan" (A/C.3/51/L.49),
submitted by the Chairperson.

21. At the 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Yemen made a
statement (see A/C.3/51/SR.53).

22. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.49
without a vote (see para. 71, draft resolution III).

                        

     4 CCPR/C/79/Add.59.

     5 CCPR/C/79/Add.53.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 9

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.53 and Rev.1

23. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Ireland, on
behalf of Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and Uruguay, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation of human
rights in Nigeria" (A/C.3/51/L.53), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights,
the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and other human rights
instruments,

"Reaffirming that all Member States have the duty to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations
they have freely undertaken under the various international instruments in
this field,

"Mindful that Nigeria is a party to the International Covenants on
Human Rights and the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination,

"Recalling its resolution 50/199 of 22 December 1995 and Commission on
Human Rights resolution 1996/79 of 23 April 1996 on the situation of human
rights in Nigeria,

"Deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Nigeria and the
suffering caused thereby to the people of Nigeria,

"Expressing concern that the absence of representative government in
Nigeria has led to violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and
recalling in this regard the popular support for democratic government as
evidenced in the 1993 elections,

"Recalling the announcement made by the Government of Nigeria on
1 October 1995 in which it affirmed the principle of multi-party democracy
and the principle of power-sharing, and its intention to lift the ban on
political activities and the press, to devolve power to the local levels of
government and to subordinate the military to civilian authority,

"Strongly disappointed that only limited action in this regard has
followed, and regretting that political associations have been instructed
to disband, while noting the recent registration of five political parties,

"Welcoming the report of the mission sent to Nigeria by the Secretary-
General pursuant to General Assembly resolution 50/199, and noting the
interim response of the Government of Nigeria to that mission,

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 10

"Welcoming also the resumption of dialogue between Nigeria and the
Commonwealth,

"Taking note with appreciation of the joint interim report of the
Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers and the
Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions,6

"Noting with deep concern reports of grave violations of human rights,
including extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions and arbitrary
detention, failure to respect due process of law and excessive use of force
against demonstrators, as described in, inter alia, reports submitted by
the Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers and the
Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions,

"Stressing the importance of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on
the independence of judges and lawyers and the Special Rapporteur on
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions to undertake a joint
investigative mission to Nigeria, as requested by the Commission on Human
Rights in its resolution 1996/79,

"Noting with alarm that persons in detention in Nigeria continue to
face a flawed judicial process, and recalling in this regard the arbitrary
execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa and his associates,

"1. Expresses its deep concern about violations of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in Nigeria, and calls upon the Government of Nigeria
urgently to ensure their observance, in particular by releasing all
political prisoners, trade union leaders, human rights advocates and
journalists who are at present detained, guaranteeing freedom of the press
and ensuring respect for the rights of all individuals, including persons
belonging to minorities;

"2. Calls upon the Government of Nigeria to ensure that trials are
held strictly in conformity with the international human rights instruments
to which Nigeria is a party;

"3. Also calls upon the Government of Nigeria to implement fully its
interim undertakings to the Secretary-General without further delay and to
respond in full to the recommendations of the Secretary-General's mission
to Nigeria;

"4. Welcomes the intention of the Secretary-General to pursue his
mandate of good offices;

"5. Urges the Government of Nigeria to cooperate fully with the
relevant mechanisms of the Commission on Human Rights;

"6. Regrets that the Government of Nigeria has not enabled the
Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers and the

                        

     6 A/51/538, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 11

Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions to
visit the country before presentation of their report to the General
Assembly, and urges the Government of Nigeria to cooperate fully with them
during the joint investigative mission to Nigeria mandated by the
Commission on Human Rights;

"7. Calls upon the Government of Nigeria to abide by its freely
undertaken obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights and other human rights instruments, including the African
Charter of Human and Peoples' Rights, adopted by the 18th Conference of
Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at
Nairobi on 28 June 1981;

"8. Notes with interest in this regard the recommendations of the
Human Rights Committee to the Government of Nigeria;7

"9. Notes the declared commitment of the Government of Nigeria to
civilian rule, and urges it to take immediate and concrete steps to restore
democratic government;

"10. Decides to consider the situation of human rights in Nigeria at
its fifty-second session under the item entitled 'Human rights questions'."

24. At its 56th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Nigeria"
(A/C.3/51/L.53/Rev.1) submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.53. Subsequently, Albania, Liechtenstein, Lithuania and the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

25. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Ireland
(on behalf of the European Union), Nigeria, Iraq and the Gambia (see
A/C.3/51/SR.56).

26. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.53/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 86 to 14, with 56 abstentions (see
para. 71, draft resolution IV). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Kazakstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Paraguay, Peru,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,

                        

     7 CCPR/C/79/Add.65.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 12

Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Suriname,
Sweden, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad
and Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: China, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Gambia,
Ghana, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Myanmar, Niger, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Togo.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Qatar,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Swaziland, Thailand, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam.

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.55

27. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Venezuela, on
behalf of Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas, Barbados,
Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cuba, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Georgia,
Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Mexico, Monaco, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Republic
of Moldova, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Spain, Suriname,
Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, the United States of America, Uruguay and
Venezuela, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Human rights in Haiti"
(A/C.3/51/L.55). Subsequently, Austria, Finland and Iceland joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

28. At its 53rd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.55 without a vote (see para. 71, draft resolution V).

29. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Haiti
made a statement (see A/C.3/51/SR.53).

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.59

30. At the 51st meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Albania, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Chile,
Costa Rica, Djibouti, Iceland, Jordan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Morocco,
Pakistan, Qatar, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Tunisia, Turkey, the United

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 13

Arab Emirates and the United States of America, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "Situation of human rights in Kosovo" (A/C.3/51/L.59). Subsequently,
Croatia and Liechtenstein joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

31. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Albania orally
revised it as follows:

(a) In the last preambular paragraph, the words "at its fifty-second
session" after the words "Commission on Human Rights" were deleted and the words
"the resolution adopted by" were inserted before the words "the Subcommission";

(b) In operative paragraph 2 (e), the words "Albanians in Kosovo" were
replaced by the words "Albanians of Kosovo".

32. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, statements were made by the
representatives of Ghana, Greece, the Russian Federation, Albania and Peru (see
A/C.3/51/SR.54).

33. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.59,
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 102 to 3, with 45 abstentions (see
para. 71, draft resolution VI). The voting was as follows:8

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Morocco,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of
Korea, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan.

Against: India, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia.

Abstaining: Angola, Belarus, Bhutan, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, China, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypt,

                        

     8 The representative of Saint Lucia subsequently indicated that he had
intended to abstain, and the representative of Djibouti indicated that had he
been present he would have voted in favour.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 14

Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Jamaica, Kenya, Malawi, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Sri Lanka, The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

34. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Russian Federation, Ireland (on behalf of the European
Union), India, Venezuela, Brazil, China, Bulgaria, Egypt and the Philippines
(see A/C.3/51/SR.54).

H. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.61

35. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of the United
States of America, on behalf of Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the United States of America, introduced a draft resolution
entitled "The situation of human rights in the Sudan" (A/C.3/51/L.61). 
Subsequently, Slovakia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

36. At the 55th meeting, on 27 November, statements were made by the
representatives of the Sudan, Iraq, Egypt and the United States of America (see
A/C.3/51/SR.55).

37. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.61
by a recorded vote of 93 to 16, with 45 abstentions (see para. 71, draft
resolution VII). The voting was as follows:9

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,
Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakstan, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Singapore,

                        

     9 The representative of Afghanistan subsequently indicated that he had
intended to vote against, and the representative of Togo indicated that he had
intended to abstain.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 15

Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Suriname, Sweden, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: China, Comoros, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Jordan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Myanmar, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Viet Nam.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Côte d'Ivoire, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, Egypt, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Oman, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Republic of Korea, Saint Lucia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Thailand, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates.

I. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.63

38. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of the United
States of America, on behalf of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Marshall
Islands, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova,
Romania, San Marino, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United
States of America and Uzbekistan, introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Situation of human rights in Cuba" (A/C.3/51/L.63). Subsequently, El Salvador
and Poland joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

39. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, statements were made by the
representatives of Iraq and Cuba (see A/C.3/51/SR.54).

40. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.63
by a recorded vote of 59 to 26, with 71 abstentions (see para. 71, draft
resolution VIII). The voting was as follows:10

In favour: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile,
Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia,

                        

     10 The representative of El Salvador subsequently indicated that he had
intended to vote in favour.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 16

Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritius, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan.

Against: Angola, China, Congo, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of
Korea, El Salvador, Gambia, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Myanmar, Namibia, Nigeria,
Papua New Guinea, South Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Abstaining: Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire,
Dominican Republic, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian
Federation, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
Venezuela.

41. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Egypt, the Gambia, Mexico, Malta and Costa Rica (see
A/C.3/51/SR.54).

J. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.64 and Rev.1

42. At the 50th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Canada, on
behalf of Albania, Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, the Czech Republic,
Hungary, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Romania and Slovenia, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation of human
rights in Rwanda" (A/C.3/51/L.64), which read:

"The General Assembly,

"Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights,
the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide
and other applicable standards of human rights and humanitarian law,

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 17

"Recalling its resolutions 50/57 of 12 December 1995 and 50/200 of
22 December 1995, and taking note of Security Council resolutions
1050 (1996) of 8 March 1996, 1078 (1996) of 9 November 1996 and 1080 (1996)
of 15 November 1996, and of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/76
of 23 April 1996,

"Deeply concerned by the reports of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights and of the Human Rights Field Operation in
Rwanda that genocide and systematic and widespread violations of
international humanitarian law, including crimes against humanity and grave
violations and abuses of human rights, were committed in Rwanda,

"Recognizing that effective action must be taken to ensure that the
perpetrators of genocide and crimes against humanity are promptly brought
to justice, and noting in this regard that legislation to govern the
prosecution of those accused of genocide or crimes against humanity entered
into force on 1 September 1996,

"Noting with concern the implications of the current humanitarian
crisis in the region,

"Welcoming the fact that considerable numbers of refugees have
recently returned to Rwanda, and affirming the readiness of the
international community to assist the Government of Rwanda in reintegrating
these returnees,

"Recognizing that effective action to prevent further violations of
human rights and fundamental freedoms must be a central and integral
element of the overall Rwandan and United Nations responses to the
situation in Rwanda, and that a strengthened human rights component is
indispensable to the peace process and post-conflict reconstruction of
Rwanda,

"Welcoming contributions made by Member States and the European Union
to the costs of the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda,

"Welcoming also the commitment of the Government of Rwanda to protect
and promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to eliminate
impunity and to facilitate the process of the voluntary and safe return,
resettlement and reintegration of refugees, as reaffirmed in the agreements
reached at Nairobi, Bujumbura and Cairo in 1995 and at Tunis and Arusha in
1996, and urging Governments in the region to work, in cooperation with the
international community, to find durable solutions to the refugee crisis,

"Stressing its concern that the United Nations should continue to play
an active role in assisting the Government of Rwanda in facilitating the
return of refugees and the reintegration of returnees, in promoting
reconciliation, in consolidating a climate of confidence and stability, and
in promoting the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Rwanda,

"Reaffirming the link between the voluntary return of refugees to
their homes and the normalization of the situation in Rwanda, and concerned

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 18

that acts of intimidation and violence directed against refugees,
particularly by the former Rwandan authorities, have prevented refugees
from returning to their homes,

"Noting the United Nations support for all efforts to reduce tension
and restore stability in the Great Lakes region, including initiatives of
the Organization of African Unity, States in the region and international
organizations, and reiterating the urgent need for an international
conference on peace, security and development in the Great Lakes region,
under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African
Unity, to address the problems of the region in a comprehensive manner,

"1. Welcomes the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights on the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda11 and the report
of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights;12

I

"2. Condemns in the strongest terms the acts of genocide, violations
of international humanitarian law and all violations and abuses of human
rights that have taken place in Rwanda, as well as cross-border violence in
the region;

"3. Expresses its deep concern at the intense suffering of the
victims of genocide and crimes against humanity, recognizes the ongoing
suffering of their survivors, particularly the extremely high number of
traumatized children and women victims of rape and sexual violence, and
urges the international community to provide adequate assistance to them
and to note the priorities identified by the Government of Rwanda in this
area;

"4. Reaffirms that all persons who committed or authorized acts of
genocide or other grave violations of international humanitarian law and
those who are responsible for grave violations of human rights are
individually responsible and accountable for those violations, and that the
international community must exert every effort, in cooperation with
national and international tribunals, to bring those responsible to
justice, in accordance with international principles of due process;

"5. Urges all States to cooperate fully, without delay, with the
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, taking into account the
obligations contained in Security Council resolutions 955 (1994) of
8 November 1994 and 978 (1995) of 27 February 1995, and encourages the
Secretary-General to facilitate the activities of the Tribunal to the
greatest extent possible;

                        

     11 A/51/478.

     12 A/51/657.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 19

II

"6. Encourages the further efforts of the Government of Rwanda to
reconstruct the civil administration and the social, legal, economic and
human rights infrastructure of Rwanda, and in this regard welcomes the
commitments made by the Government of Rwanda to restore the rule of law and
protect and promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;

"7. Invites all States, the organizations and bodies of the United
Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to
continue and to intensify their contributions of financial and technical
support to accelerate the efforts of the Government of Rwanda to,
inter alia, restore the judicial system, promote reconciliation through the
recently established Commission for National Reconciliation and safely
reintegrate returning refugees in conditions of safety and dignity,
including addressing competing claims to housing and property;

"8. Expresses grave concern at reports from the Human Rights Field
Operation in Rwanda of killings of civilians during attacks on survivors
and witnesses of genocide, apparently by militias and insurgents opposed to
the Government of Rwanda, and at the reports of the Field Operation which
state that civilians have been killed during military search operations by
the Rwandese Patriotic Army;

"9. Encourages the Government of Rwanda to continue in its efforts to
further strengthen the judicial system, including its independence, and
urges in particular that the processing of the cases of those in detention
be brought to a conclusion expeditiously;

"10. Notes with deep concern the reports of the Human Rights Field
Operation in Rwanda which state that government officials without legal
authority to arrest or imprison continue to do so in several parts of the
country, that detainees are held for very long periods before trial and
that acute overcrowding threatens the safety of those in detention;

"11. Encourages the further efforts of the Government of Rwanda to
involve, without any discrimination, all citizens not responsible for
genocide or other grave violations of international humanitarian law in its
administrative, judicial, political and security structures;

"12. Welcomes the efforts of the Government of Rwanda, neighbouring
countries, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
and the international community to resolve the ongoing humanitarian crisis,
and calls upon all parties to take all appropriate measures to ensure the
return, resettlement and reintegration of former refugees in conditions of
safety and dignity;

"13. Commends and encourages the efforts of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees as well as the United Nations Development Programme and other
United Nations offices and organizations to coordinate their efforts to

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 20

ensure respect for and protection of the human rights of refugees during
their return, resettlement and reintegration;

III

"14. Welcomes the measures taken by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, working in cooperation with and assisting
the Government of Rwanda, to put in place the Human Rights Field Operation
in Rwanda, the objectives of which were described in Assembly resolution
50/200, and requests the High Commissioner to continue to report regularly
on the activities of the Field Operation and to continue to cooperate and
share information with the Special Rapporteur, in order to assist him in
fulfilling his mandate; 

"15. Welcomes also the cooperation the Government of Rwanda has
extended to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the
Special Rapporteur and the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda and the
acceptance by the Government of Rwanda of the deployment of human rights
field officers throughout the country;

"16. Commends the contribution of human rights officers and the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to the promotion and protection
of human rights in Rwanda, recognizes that a strong human rights component
is an integral and indispensable element of the United Nations response to
the situation in Rwanda, and encourages all agencies and organizations of
the United Nations system active in Rwanda to coordinate closely with the
Field Operation;

"17. Recognizes the importance of the United Nations Human Rights
Field Operation in Rwanda in contributing to reconciliation and the
establishment of confidence in the country, and recommends the
strengthening of its presence throughout Rwanda as well as the allocation
of sufficient funds and logistical support for that purpose, taking into
account the need to train local human rights observers and deploy a
sufficient number of human rights field officers, and the need of the
Government of Rwanda and Rwandan human rights organizations for programmes
of technical assistance and advisory services;

"18. Calls upon all States to respond to the appeal of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and contribute urgently to the
costs of the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda and to work for lasting
solutions to its financing problems through the regular budget of the
United Nations;

"19. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to
report on the activities of the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda to
the Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-third session, and to the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session."

43. At its 55th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Rwanda"
(A/C.3/51/L.64/Rev.1) submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 21

A/C.3/51/L.64, subsequently joined by Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Benin,
Cambodia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino,
Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of
America.

44. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted revised draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.64/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 71, draft resolution IX).

K. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.66

45. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Australia, Bangladesh,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Chile, Costa Rica,
the Czech Republic, Djibouti, Guyana, Iceland, Japan, Jordan, Liechtenstein,
Malaysia, Malta, Mauritania, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United States of America, Uruguay
and Yemen, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Rape and abuse of women in
the areas of armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia" (A/C.3/51/L.66). 
Subsequently, Azerbaijan, Austria, Argentina, Belgium, Croatia, Canada, Denmark,
the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, the Gambia, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Monaco, Mozambique,
Norway, Portugal, the Philippines, Spain, the Sudan, Sweden and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

46. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Pakistan orally
revised it as follows:

(a) In the sixth preambular paragraph, the words "which has been used"
were deleted before the words "in fulfilling the policy";

(b) In operative paragraph 10, the words "including by providing full
access" were inserted at the end of the paragraph.

47. At the 55th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Pakistan further
orally revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In operative paragraph 12, the words "as appropriate" were deleted
after the words "submit a report";

(b) Operative paragraph 13 was deleted.

48. At the same meeting, a statement was made by the representative of Ireland
on behalf of the European Union (see A/C.3/51/SR.55).

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 22

49. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/51/L.66, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 71, draft
resolution X).

L. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.68

50. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of the United
States of America, on behalf of Albania, Andorra, Australia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Hungary,
Israel, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Malaysia, Monaco, Morocco, New Zealand, Pakistan,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovenia, Tunisia, Turkey and the United
States of America, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation of human
rights in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)" (A/C.3/51/L.68). 
Subsequently, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined in sponsoring the
draft resolution.

51. At the 55th meeting, on 27 November, the Secretary of the Committee read
out corrections to the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In the second preambular paragraph, the words "the obligations they
have" were replaced with the words "their obligations";

(b) In the third, ninth, tenth, sixteenth and eighteenth preambular
paragraphs, and in operative paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 16 and 24, the words "the
Republic of" were deleted before the words "Bosnia and Herzegovina";

(c) In operative paragraph 9, the words "religious and linguistic" were
replaced with the words "religious or linguistic".

52. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America
further orally revised the draft resolution, as follows:

(a) In the thirteenth preambular paragraph, the words "the relevant
successor States of the former Yugoslavia" were replaced with the words "all
parties to the peace agreement";

(b) The fourteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Encouraging the international community, acting through the United
Nations, the World Bank, other international organizations and the European
Union as well as bilaterally, to enhance significantly donor support aimed
at promoting human rights, economic reconstruction, the voluntary
repatriation of refugees and the return of internally displaced persons to
their homes in safety and dignity, and the establishment of democratic
structures throughout the region",

was deleted.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 23

53. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Ireland
(on behalf of the European Union), Croatia and the Russian Federation (see
A/C.3/51/SR.55).

54. Also at the same meeting, the Committee decided to postpone action on the
draft resolution.

55. At the 56th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of the United
States of America further orally revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) A new third preambular paragraph was inserted, reading:

"Reaffirming the territorial integrity of all States in the region,
within their internationally recognized borders";

(b) In operative paragraph 24, the words "the authorities of the Republika
Srpska and the Governments of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)" were replaced with the words "the Government
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular the authorities of the Republika
Srpska, and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro)".

56. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation proposed
the insertion of a new third preambular paragraph, reading:

"Reaffirming the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, within the
internationally recognized borders".

57. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of the
Netherlands, Pakistan, Egypt, Ireland (on behalf of the European Union) and Cuba
(see A/C.3/51/SR.56). The meeting was suspended.

58. Upon the resumption of the meeting, statements were made by the
representatives of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Canada, Slovenia,
Saudi Arabia, Croatia, Ireland (on behalf of the European Union), the United
States of America, Senegal, Malaysia, Oman, Pakistan, the Netherlands, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Morocco, Spain, Chile, Italy and Costa Rica (see
A/C.3/51/SR.56).

59. At the same meeting, the Committee rejected the amendment proposed by the
Russian Federation by a recorded vote of 90 to 4, with 43 abstentions. The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Azerbaijan, China, India, Russian Federation.

Against: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Comoros, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Egypt,
El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 24

Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Morocco, Mozambique,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Papua New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, The
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia, Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia,
France, Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Greece, Kenya, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saint Lucia,
Sierra Leone, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

60. After the rejection of the amendment proposed by the Russian Federation,
statements were made by the representatives of France, China, Brazil, Colombia
and the Philippines (see A/C.3/51/SR.56).

61. At the same meeting, statements were made before the vote on the draft
resolution by the representatives of Croatia, the Russian Federation and Greece
(see A/C.3/51/SR.56).

62. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.68
as a whole, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 131 to 1, with 20
abstentions (see para. 71, draft resolution XI). The voting was as follows:13

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland,
France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall

                        

     13 The representatives of Ghana and Kyrgyzstan subsequently indicated that
had they been present they would have abstained.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 25

Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint
Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Venezuela.

Against: Russian Federation.

Abstaining: Angola, Belarus, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, China, Congo,
Côte d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gambia, India, Kenya,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

63. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (see
A/C.3/51/SR.56).

M. Draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.69

64. At the 52nd meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Sweden, on
behalf of Andorra, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Chile, the Czech
Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Monaco, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania,
San Marino, South Africa, Spain, Sweden and the United States of America,
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Situation of human rights in Myanmar"
(A/C.3/51/L.69). Subsequently, Australia, Canada, Lithuania and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

65. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee orally corrected
operative paragraph 17 by replacing the words "in order to assist in its efforts
for national reconciliation and in the implementation of the present resolution"
with the words "in order to assist in the implementation of the present
resolution and its efforts for national reconciliation".

66. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Sweden further
orally revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In the ninth preambular paragraph, the words "recent aggression
committed against" were replaced with the words "attack, on 9 November 1996,
on";

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 26

(b) In operative paragraph 7, the words "to cooperate fully with the
Secretary-General" were replaced with the words "to allow a visit by the
Representative of the Secretary-General, as soon as possible".

67. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Ghana,
Sweden and Myanmar (see A/C.3/51/SR.54).

68. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/51/L.69,
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 71, draft resolution XII).

69. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Netherlands and Japan (see A/C.3/51/SR.54).

N. Draft decision

70. At its 56th meeting, 29 November, on the proposal of the Chairman, the
Committee adopted, without a vote, a draft decision by which the General
Assembly would take note of the report of the Secretary-General on the situation
of human rights in southern Lebanon and western Bekaa (A/51/507) and the note by
the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the
situation of human rights in Burundi (A/51/459) (see para. 72, draft
decision II).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

71. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Situation of human rights in Iraq

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights14 and the International Covenants on Human Rights,15

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and the duty to fulfil the
obligations they have undertaken under the various international instruments in
this field,

                        

     14 Resolution 217 A (III).

     15 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 27

Mindful that Iraq is a party to the International Covenants on Human Rights
and to other international human rights instruments, and to the Geneva
Conventions of 12 August 1949,16

Recalling its resolution 50/191 of 22 December 1995, in which it expressed
its strong condemnation of the massive violations of human rights of the gravest
nature in Iraq, and recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/72 of
23 April 1996,17

Bearing in mind Security Council resolution 688 (1991) of 5 April 1991, in
which the Council demanded an end to the repression of the Iraqi civilian
population and insisted that Iraq cooperate with humanitarian organizations and
ensure that the human and political rights of all Iraqi citizens were respected,

Recalling Security Council resolution 687 (1991) of 3 April 1991,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 986 (1995) of 14 April 1995, by
which the Council authorized States to permit imports of Iraqi oil up to the
amount of one billion United States dollars every ninety days, on a renewable
basis, to be used, inter alia, to purchase essential food and medical supplies
for humanitarian purposes,

Deploring the refusal of the Government of Iraq to cooperate with the
United Nations human rights mechanisms, in particular by not receiving a return
visit of the Special Rapporteur to Iraq and not allowing the stationing of human
rights monitors throughout Iraq pursuant to the relevant resolutions of the
General Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the interim report on the situation of
human rights in Iraq18 submitted by the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on
Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Iraq and the observations,
conclusions and recommendations contained therein, and noting his dismay that
there has been no improvement in the situation of human rights in the country;

2. Expresses its strong condemnation of the massive and extremely grave
violations of human rights for which the Government of Iraq is responsible,
resulting in an all-pervasive order of repression and oppression which is
sustained by broad-based discrimination and widespread terror;

3. Expresses its condemnation with regard to the violations of human
rights and international humanitarian law, in particular of:

(a) Summary and arbitrary executions, including political killings;

                        

     16 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

     17 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23). 

     18 A/51/496 and Add.1.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 28

(b) The widespread routine practice of systematic torture in its most
cruel forms;

(c) The enactment and implementation of decrees prescribing cruel and
unusual punishment, namely mutilation, as a penalty for certain offences and the
abuse and diversion of medical-care services for the purpose of such
mutilations;

(d) Enforced or involuntary disappearances, routinely practised arbitrary
arrests and detention and consistent and routine failure to respect due process
and the rule of law;

(e) Suppression of freedom of thought, information, expression,
association and assembly, through fear of arrest, imprisonment and other
sanctions, including the death penalty, as well as harsh limitations to freedom
of movement;

4. Welcomes the memorandum of understanding reached in May 1996 between
Iraq and the Secretary-General to implement Security Council resolution
986 (1995) to respond to the serious humanitarian situation in Iraq perpetuated
by the non-compliance of the Government of Iraq with various Security Council
resolutions;

5. Urges the Government of Iraq to cooperate with the United Nations with
a view to ensuring the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995),
in accordance with the agreement reached in May 1996 that medicines, health
supplies, foodstuffs and other humanitarian supplies, purchased with the
proceeds of the sale of Iraqi petroleum and petroleum products, are distributed
to the Iraqi population equitably and on a non-discriminatory basis;

6. Again expresses its special alarm at the policies of the Government of
Iraq, which discriminate between regions and prevent the equitable enjoyment of
basic foodstuffs and medical supplies, and calls upon Iraq, which has sole
responsibility in this regard, to take steps to cooperate with international
humanitarian agencies in the provision of relief to those in need throughout
Iraq;

7. Calls once again upon Iraq, as a State party to the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,15 and to the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,15 to abide by its freely undertaken
obligations under the Covenants and under other international instruments on
human rights, and international humanitarian law, and particularly to respect
and ensure the rights of all individuals, irrespective of their origin, within
its territory and subject to its jurisdiction;

8. Demands that the Government of Iraq restore the independence of the
judiciary and abrogate all laws granting impunity to specified forces or persons
killing or injuring individuals for any purpose beyond the administration of
justice under the rule of law as prescribed by international standards;

9. Also demands that the Government of Iraq abrogate any and all decrees
that prescribe cruel and inhuman punishment or treatment and take every step

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 29

necessary to ensure that the practice of torture and cruel and unusual
punishments and treatment no longer occur;

10. Urges the Government of Iraq to abrogate all laws and procedures,
including Revolution Command Council decree No. 840 of 4 November 1986, that
penalize the free expression of competing views and ideas and to ensure that the
genuine will of the people shall be the basis of authority in the State;

11. Also urges the Government of Iraq to improve its cooperation within
the framework of the Tripartite Commission and its technical subcommittee with a
view to establishing the whereabouts or resolving the fate of the remaining
several hundred missing persons and prisoners of war, Kuwaitis and third-country
nationals victims of the illegal Iraqi occupation of Kuwait;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with
all necessary assistance in carrying out his mandate and to approve the
allocation of sufficient human and material resources for the sending of human
rights monitors to such locations as would facilitate improved information flow
and assessment and help in the independent verification of reports on the
situation of human rights in Iraq;

13. Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights
in Iraq during its fifty-second session under the item entitled "Human rights
questions", in the light of additional elements provided by the Commission on
Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights19 and the International Covenants on Human Rights,20

Recalling that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by
the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,21

reaffirmed that human rights and fundamental freedoms were the birthright of all
human beings and that their protection and promotion was the first
responsibility of Governments,

Reaffirming that all Member States have a duty to fulfil the obligations
they have undertaken under the various international instruments in this field,

                        

     19 Resolution 217 A (III).

     20 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     21 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 30

Mindful that the Islamic Republic of Iran is a party to the International
Covenants on Human Rights,

Recalling the appointment by the Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights
of Mr. Maurice Danby Copithorne as Special Representative of the Commission on
the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran,

Recalling its previous resolutions expressing concern at the violations of
human rights by the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
most recent, resolution 50/188 of 22 December 1995, and the resolutions of the
Commission on Human Rights, including the most recent, resolution 1996/84 of
24 April 1996,22 and of the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities, including the most recent, resolution 1996/7 of
20 August 1996,

Welcoming the cooperation extended by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran to the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on
religious intolerance and the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights on freedom of opinion and expression, who have been able to visit the
Islamic Republic of Iran, and bearing in mind the reports of those Special
Rapporteurs on their visits,23

Taking note of the interim report of the Special Representative of
11 October 1996,24 and the addendum to it and noting that he will present a
further report to the Commission on Human Rights,

Welcoming the requests by the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran
for technical assistance and advisory services from the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights, as well as
from the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Branch, and taking note with
interest of the observation by the Special Representative in this regard, 

Taking note with interest of certain recent developments in the Islamic
Republic of Iran which, in the view of the Special Representative, are
indicators of potential improvement of the status of women in that country,

Considering that continued international scrutiny of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in the Islamic Republic of Iran is warranted and that the
subject should remain on the agenda of the General Assembly,

1. Expresses its concern at the continuing violations of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran, in particular the high number of executions in the
absence of internationally recognized safeguards, cases of torture and cruel,
inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the failure to meet international

                        

     22 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

     23 E/CN.4/1996/95/Add.2 and Corr.1 and E/CN.4/1996/39/Add.2.

     24 A/51/479.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 31

standards with regard to the administration of justice and the absence of due
process of law, violations of the right to peaceful assembly and restrictions on
the freedom of expression, thought, opinion and the press;

2. Also expresses its concern at the grave breaches of human rights of
the Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of Iran and situations of discrimination
against the members of this religious community, as well as at the
discriminatory treatment of minorities by reason of their religious beliefs,
including lack of adequate protection for the Christian minorities, some members
of which have been the target of intimidation and assassination;

3. Further expresses its concern at the widespread discrimination against
women in the Islamic Republic of Iran and the lack of full and equal enjoyment
by women of human rights, and calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran to take effective measures to eliminate all discrimination against
women;

4. Urges the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a State party
to the International Covenants on Human Rights,20 to abide by its freely
undertaken obligations under the Covenants and under other international
instruments on human rights, and to ensure that all individuals within its
territory and subject to its jurisdiction, including members of religious groups
and persons belonging to minorities, enjoy all the rights enshrined in those
instruments;

5. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to implement
fully the conclusions and recommendations of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on religious intolerance relating to the Baha'is and
to other minority religious groups, including Christians;

6. Expresses its grave concern at indications, according to the
information received by the Special Representative of the Commission on Human
Rights on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, of a
significant toughening of criminal legislation and its application in the
Islamic Republic of Iran and in particular at the incidence of capital
punishment imposed for apostasy and non-violent crimes, in violation of the
relevant provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights20

and United Nations safeguards;

7. Expresses its concern at the harassment and persecution of persons,
including writers and members of the press, seeking to exercise their freedom of
expression;

8. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to implement
existing agreements with international humanitarian organizations;

9. Expresses its grave concern that there are continuing threats to the
life of Mr. Salman Rushdie, as well as to individuals associated with his work,
which appear to have the support of the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran, notes in this regard that efforts aimed at obtaining satisfactory written
assurances from the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran that it does not

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 32

support these threats have so far been unsuccessful, and calls upon the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to provide such assurances;

10. Deplores the politically motivated continuing violence against
Iranians outside the Islamic Republic of Iran, and urges the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to refrain from activities against members of the
Iranian opposition living abroad and the harassment of their relatives within
the Islamic Republic of Iran, and to cooperate wholeheartedly with the
authorities of other countries in investigating and punishing offences reported
by them;

11. Welcomes the cooperation extended by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran to the Special Representative, who has been able to conduct a
preliminary visit to the Islamic Republic of Iran;

12. Expresses its hope that the Special Representative will again be
allowed to visit the Islamic Republic of Iran in the discharge of his mandate;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the
Special Representative to enable him to discharge his mandate fully;

14. Decides to continue the examination of the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of minority groups such
as the Baha'is, during its fifty-second session under the item entitled "Human
rights questions", on the basis of the report of the Special Representative and
in the light of additional elements provided by the Commission on Human Rights
and the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Situation of human rights in Afghanistan

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,25 the International Covenants on Human Rights,26 and accepted
humanitarian rules, as set out in the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 194927 and
the Additional Protocols thereto, of 1977,28

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations they
have freely undertaken under the various international instruments,

                        

     25 Resolution 217 A (III).

     26 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     27 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

     28 Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 33

Recalling that Afghanistan is a party to the Convention on the Prevention
and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide,29 the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights,26 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights,26 the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment30 and the Convention on the Rights of the
Child,31 and that it has signed the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women,32

Recalling all its relevant resolutions, as well as the resolutions of the
Commission on Human Rights and the decisions of the Economic and Social Council,

Welcoming the special emphasis that the United Nations Special Mission to
Afghanistan has placed on human rights issues in its discussions with the Afghan
parties,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the interim report of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in
Afghanistan33 and of the conclusions and recommendations contained therein;

2. Expresses concern at the numerous and consistent reports of human
rights abuses and violations of humanitarian law and human rights, including the
rights to life, liberty and security of person, freedom from torture and from
other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and freedom
of opinion, expression and association;

3. Expresses its deep concern at the intensification of armed hostilities
in Afghanistan, and calls on all parties involved immediately to cease such
hostilities and to engage in a political dialogue aimed at achieving national
reconciliation;

4. Calls on all the Afghan parties fully to respect and act in accordance
with all human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of gender, ethnicity
or religion, and in particular the right to life, liberty and security of
person, and freedom of opinion and expression;

5. Urges all the Afghan parties fully to respect accepted humanitarian
rules and act in accordance with all human rights and fundamental freedoms,
including the rights of women and children, and calls upon the Afghan
authorities to take measures to ensure the effective participation of women in
social, political and cultural life throughout the country;

                        

     29 Resolution 260 A (III).

     30 Resolution 39/46, annex.

     31 Resolution 44/25, annex.

     32 Resolution 38/180, annex.

     33 A/51/481.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 34

6. Deeply deplores the grave deterioration of the human rights of women
noted by the Special Rapporteur in his report, and urges the Afghan authorities
immediately to restore respect for all human rights of women, including the
right of women to work and the right of girls to education without
discrimination, and calls upon Afghanistan to ratify the Convention on the
Elimination of Discrimination against Women, to which it is a signatory;

7. Urges all the Afghan parties to work closely with the United Nations
Special Mission to Afghanistan with a view to achieving a comprehensive
political solution leading to the eventual establishment of a democratic
Government elected through free and fair elections based on the right to self-
determination of the peoples of Afghanistan;

8. Demands that all Afghan parties fulfil their obligations and
commitments regarding the safety of United Nations personnel and other
international personnel as well as their premises in Afghanistan and cooperate
fully with the United Nations and associated bodies as well as with other
humanitarian organizations and agencies;

9. Strongly urges all parties to the conflict to take all necessary
measures to ensure the safety of all personnel of humanitarian organizations and
representatives of the media in Afghanistan;

10. Endorses the Special Rapporteur's condemnation of the abduction
from United Nations premises of the former President of Afghanistan,
Mr. Najibullah, and of his brother, and their subsequent summary execution;

11. Urges the Afghan authorities to provide efficient and effective
remedies to the victims of grave violations of human rights and of accepted
humanitarian rules and to bring their perpetrators to trial in accordance with
internationally accepted standards;

12. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to entrust the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return
of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of
Illicit Appropriation with the mandate, upon the invitation and with the
cooperation of the Afghan authorities, of examining ways and means to restore
the Kabul Museum, including through the tracing of the country's stolen
articles, to propose measures aimed at preventing the illicit import, export and
transfer of ownership of artefacts belonging to the Kabul Museum and to report
thereon to the Executive Board of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization;

13. Appeals to Member States and to the international community to provide
adequate humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan and to the Afghan
refugees in the neighbouring countries, pending, and with a view to encouraging,
their voluntary repatriation;

14. Urges the authorities in Afghanistan to continue to extend their
cooperation to the Commission on Human Rights and its Special Rapporteur;

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 35

15. Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the
Special Rapporteur;

16. Decides to keep the situation of human rights in Afghanistan under
consideration at its fifty-second session, in the light of additional elements
provided by the Commission on Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Situation of human rights in Nigeria

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,34 the International Covenants on Human Rights,35 the Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action36 and other human rights instruments,

Reaffirming that all Member States have the duty to promote and protect
human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations they have
freely undertaken under the various international instruments in this field,

Recalling that Nigeria is a party to the International Covenants on Human
Rights and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Racial Discrimination,37

Recalling its resolution 50/199 of 22 December 1995 and Commission on Human
Rights resolution 1996/79 of 23 April 1996 on the situation of human rights in
Nigeria,38 including the absence of representative Government in Nigeria contrary
to the popular support for democratic government as evidenced in the 1995
elections,

Also recalling the announcement made by the Government of Nigeria on
1 October 1995, in which it affirmed the principle of multi-party democracy and
the principle of power-sharing and its intention to lift the ban on political
activities and the press, to devolve power to the local levels of government and
to subordinate the military to civilian authority,

                        

     34 Resolution 217 A (III).

     35 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     36 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

     37 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

     38 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 36

Welcoming the report of the mission sent to Nigeria by the Secretary-
General pursuant to General Assembly resolution 50/199, and noting the interim
response of the Government of Nigeria to that mission,

Welcoming also the resumption of dialogue between Nigeria and the
Commonwealth,

Noting the action taken to date to move towards a system of multi-party
democracy, including the registration of five political parties and the
intention to hold elections, on a party basis, to the local councils in
December 1996, as well as the release of a number of detainees and the repeal or
amendment of measures which were seen as obstacles to human rights,

Regretting, however, that a number of political associations have been
instructed to disband, on the grounds that they did not meet the requirements
stipulated in the transition process,

Taking note with appreciation of the interim report of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the independence of judges and
lawyers and the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions,39

Noting with deep concern reports of grave violations of human rights,
including extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions and arbitrary
detention, and failure to respect due process of law, as described in,
inter alia, reports submitted by the Special Rapporteur on the independence of
judges and lawyers and the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions, as well as in the concluding observations of the Human
Rights Committee,

Stressing the importance of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the
independence of judges and lawyers and the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial,
summary or arbitrary executions to undertake a joint investigative mission to
Nigeria, as requested by the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution
1996/79,

Concerned that, despite a number of legislative and procedural measures
taken to reform the system of administration of justice, persons in detention in
Nigeria continue to face a flawed judicial process, and recalling in this regard
the arbitrary execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa and his associates,

1. Expresses its deep concern about violations of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in Nigeria, and calls upon the Government of Nigeria
urgently to ensure their observance, including by releasing all political
prisoners, trade union leaders, human rights advocates and journalists who are
at present detained, guaranteeing freedom of the press and ensuring respect for
the rights of all individuals, including persons belonging to minorities;

                        

     39 A/51/538, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 37

2. Calls upon the Government of Nigeria to ensure that trials are held
strictly in conformity with the international human rights instruments to which
Nigeria is a party;

3. Also calls upon the Government of Nigeria to abide by its freely
undertaken obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights and other human rights instruments, including the African Charter of
Human and Peoples' Rights and notes with interest in this regard the
recommendations of the Human Rights Committee to the Government of Nigeria;40

4. Further calls upon the Government of Nigeria to implement fully its
interim undertakings to the Secretary-General without further delay and to
respond in full to the recommendations of the Secretary-General's mission to
Nigeria;

5. Regrets that the Government of Nigeria has not enabled the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the independence of judges and
lawyers and the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions to visit the country before
presentation of their report to the General Assembly, and urges the Government
of Nigeria to cooperate fully with them during the joint investigative mission
to Nigeria mandated by the Commission on Human Rights, and with the relevant
mechanisms of the Commission on Human Rights;

6. Notes the declared commitment of the Government of Nigeria to civilian
rule and urges it to take further concrete steps to restore democratic
government;

7. Welcomes the intention of the Secretary-General to pursue his good
offices and requests the Secretary-General in the discharge of his good offices
mandate and in cooperation with the Commonwealth to continue to undertake
further discussion with the Government of Nigeria and to report on progress in
the implementation of the present resolution and on the possibilities for the
international community to offer practical assistance to Nigeria to achieve the
restoration of democratic rule and the full enjoyment of human rights in
Nigeria;

8. Decides to consider this question at its fifty-second session under
the item entitled "Human rights questions".

                        

     40 CCPR/C/79/Add.65.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 38

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Human rights in Haiti

The General Assembly,

Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights41 and the International Covenants on Human
Rights,42

Recalling its resolution 50/196 of 22 December 1995, and taking note of
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/58 of 19 April 1996,43

Taking into account the report of the independent expert of the Commission
on Human Rights, Mr. Adama Dieng,44 appointed to assist the Government of Haiti
in the area of human rights, to consider the development of the human rights
situation in that country and to verify compliance by it with its obligations in
that field, and the recommendations contained in that report,

Recognizing the important contributions of the International Civilian
Mission to Haiti, the United Nations Support Mission in Haiti and the National
Commission for Truth and Justice in the establishment of a climate of freedom
and tolerance propitious to the respect for human rights and the restoration and
spread of democracy in Haiti,

Welcoming the renewal by the General Assembly in its resolution 50/86 C of
29 August 1996 of the mandate of the International Civilian Mission to Haiti,

Welcoming also the improvements in the situation of human rights in Haiti,
and noting the policy statements by Haitian authorities that the Government of
Haiti remains committed to upholding human rights and improving accountability,

Expressing concern at the increase in common crime, and noting the
continuing need for technical training of the Haitian National Police and for
strengthening of the judicial system,

Expressing its satisfaction with the invitation to visit the country
extended by the Government of Haiti to the Special Rapporteur of the Commission
on Human Rights on violence against women,

                        

     41 Resolution 217 A (III).

     42 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     43 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

     44 E/CN.4/1996/94.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 39

Considering the request of the Government of Haiti for technical assistance
and advisory services in the field of human rights addressed to the Centre for
Human Rights of the Secretariat,

1. Expresses its thanks to the Secretary-General and his Special
Representative for Haiti for their efforts in favour of the consolidation of
democratic institutions in Haiti and the respect of human rights in that
country;

2. Welcomes the satisfactory evolution of the political process in Haiti
and the holding of presidential elections on 17 December 1995, which permitted
the first transfer of power between two democratically elected Presidents;

3. Takes note of the report of the independent expert of the Commission
on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Haiti44 and the conclusions
and recommendations contained therein;

4. Expresses its concern about recent and other persistent security
challenges to Haitian society caused, inter alia, by difficult economic and
social conditions, which threaten progress in the field of human rights and
democratic stability in the country;

5. Welcomes the report of the National Commission for Truth and Justice,
as well as reports by the International Civilian Mission in Haiti on Haitian
justice and on respect for human rights by the Haitian National Police, and
urges the Government of Haiti to undertake appropriate follow-up action on the
recommendations contained in these reports, with the support of the
international community;

6. Supports the Government of Haiti's ongoing process of reform of the
judicial system, including instructions in international human rights law and
human rights;

7. Requests the international community, including the United Nations
Development Programme, to continue providing funds for the reform of the
judicial system and those activities which contribute to the social and economic
development of Haitian society;

8. Encourages the international community to contribute generously to the
Trust Fund for the Haitian National Police, which will be needed to respond to
the request of the Government of Haiti for a technical adviser programme;

9. Welcomes the establishment of the programme of technical cooperation
prepared by the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat aimed at
strengthening institutional capacity in the field of human rights, in particular
in the areas of legislative reform, training of justice administration personnel
and human rights education, and requests the Secretary-General to submit a
report on the implementation of this programme to the General Assembly at its
fifty-second session;

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 40

10. Invites the international community, including the Bretton Woods
institutions, to continue their involvement in the reconstruction and
development of Haiti;

11. Invites the Special Rapporteur on violence against women to consider
favourably the invitation extended to him by the Government of Haiti to visit
the country, with the support of the United Nations Population Fund;

12. Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights
and fundamental freedoms in Haiti at its fifty-second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Situation of human rights in Kosovo

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,45 the International Covenants on Human Rights,46 the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,47 the
Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide48 and the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punishment,49

Taking note with concern of the reports of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in the territory of
the former Yugoslavia which describe the continuing grave human rights situation
in Kosovo, including in particular police brutality, killings resulting from
such violence, arbitrary searches and arrests, torture and ill-treatment of
detainees, the deliberate maltreatment, persecution and imprisonment of
political and human rights activists, the mass dismissals of civil servants,
discrimination against pupils and teachers, acts which are mainly perpetrated
against ethnic Albanians,

Welcoming, as a first step, the recent signature of a memorandum of
understanding concerning the educational system in the Albanian language in
Kosovo and calling for the proper implementation of that memorandum,

                        

     45 Resolution 217 A (III).

     46 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     47 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

     48 Resolution 260 A (III).

     49 Resolution 39/46, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 41

Appreciating efforts to monitor the situation in Kosovo, but at the same
time expressing regret at the fact that the establishment of an adequate
international monitoring presence in Kosovo has not yet been achieved,

Recalling its resolution 50/190 of 22 December 1995 and other relevant
resolutions, and taking note of the resolutions on the matter adopted by the
Commission on Human Rights and the resolution adopted by the Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, at its forty-eighth
session,

1. Condemns all violations of human rights in Kosovo, in particular the
repression of the ethnic Albanian population and discrimination against them, as
well as all acts of violence in Kosovo;

2. Demands that the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro):

(a) Take all necessary measures to bring to an immediate end all human
rights violations against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, including, in particular,
the discriminatory measures and practices, arbitrary searches and detention, the
violation of the right to a fair trial and the practice of torture and other
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, and to revoke all discriminatory
legislation, in particular that which has entered into force since 1989;

(b) Release all political prisoners and cease the persecution of political
leaders and members of local human rights organizations;

(c) Allow the establishment of genuine democratic institutions in Kosovo,
including the parliament and the judiciary, and respect the will of its
inhabitants as the best means of preventing the escalation of the conflict
there;

(d) Allow the reopening of educational, cultural and scientific
institutions of the ethnic Albanians;

(e) Pursue constructive dialogue with the representatives of ethnic
Albanians of Kosovo;

3. Welcomes the visits to Kosovo of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in the territory of
the former Yugoslavia and her relevant reports and calls upon her to continue to
monitor closely the human rights situation in Kosovo and to continue to pay due
attention to this matter in her reporting;

4. Urges the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro) to allow the immediate unconditional return of the long-term
mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to Kosovo,
called for in Security Council resolution 855 (1993) of 9 August 1993;

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 42

5. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General submitted pursuant to
resolution 50/190,50 and requests him to continue his efforts to seek ways and
means, including through consultations with the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights and relevant regional organizations, to establish an adequate
international monitoring presence in Kosovo and to report thereon to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session;

6. Encourages the Secretary-General to pursue his humanitarian efforts in
the former Yugoslavia, in liaison with the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Children's Fund and other
appropriate humanitarian organizations, with a view to taking urgent practical
steps to tackle the critical needs of the people in Kosovo, especially of the
most vulnerable groups affected by the conflict, and to assist in the voluntary
return of displaced persons to their homes in conditions of safety and dignity;

7. Emphasizes the importance of laws and regulations concerning
citizenship applied by the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) being in accordance with the standards and principles of
non-discrimination, equal protection before the law, and the reduction and
avoidance of statelessness, as set out in the relevant international human
rights instruments;

8. Decides to continue examination of the human rights situation in
Kosovo at its fifty-second session under the item entitled "Human rights
questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

The situation of human rights in the Sudan

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,51 the International Covenants on Human Rights,52 the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,53 and the
Convention on the Rights of the Child,54

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to comply with the obligations
laid down in the various instruments in this field,

                        

     50 A/51/556.

     51 Resolution 217 A (III).

     52 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     53 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

     54 Resolution 44/25, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 43

Recalling the obligation of all parties to respect international
humanitarian law,

Recalling also its resolution 50/197 of 22 December 1995, and taking note
of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/73 of 23 April 1996,55

Noting with deep concern reports of grave human rights violations in the
Sudan, in particular summary executions, detentions without trial, forced
displacement of persons and torture, as described in reports submitted to the
Commission on Human Rights by the Special Rapporteur on the question of torture,
the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and
the Special Rapporteur on the question of religious intolerance,

Welcoming the fourth and latest interim report of the Special Rapporteur on
the situation of human rights in the Sudan,56 and noting with concern the
continuing violations of human rights in the Sudan,

Concerned about continuing deliberate and indiscriminate aerial
bombardments by the Government of the Sudan of civilian targets in southern
Sudan, in clear violation of international humanitarian law, which have added to
the suffering of the civilian population and resulted in casualties to
civilians, including relief workers involved in Operation Lifeline Sudan and
international private voluntary agencies,

Welcoming the lifting in July 1996 of restrictions on aircraft employed to
deliver humanitarian assistance, yet deeply concerned by the continued denial of
flight clearances to affected areas, which exacerbates the threat to human life,

Alarmed by the large number of internally displaced persons and victims of
discrimination in the Sudan, including members of ethnic minorities who have
been forcibly displaced in violation of their human rights and who are in need
of relief assistance and protection,

Noting that the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the
Sudan and the Special Rapporteur on religious intolerance carried out missions
to the Sudan in 1996, as requested by the General Assembly in its resolution
50/197,

Deeply concerned by the conclusion of the Special Rapporteur, also stated
in his previous reports, that grave and widespread violations of human rights by
government agents, as well as abuses by members of parties to the conflict in
southern Sudan other than the Government of the Sudan, continue to take place in
the zones controlled by them, including extrajudicial killings, enforced or
involuntary disappearances, abductions, slavery, systematic torture and

                        

     55 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

     56 A/51/490, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 44

widespread arbitrary arrests of suspected political opponents, as well as
restrictions on religious minorities,57

Welcoming the establishment by the Government of the Sudan of the Special
Investigation Committee on Allegations of Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances
and Reported Cases of Slavery,

Alarmed by the continuing failure of the Sudanese authorities to
investigate human rights violations and abuses brought to their attention over
the past years,

Gravely alarmed that since February 1994 there have been increasing reports
from a wide variety of sources indicating that atrocities by the Government of
the Sudan against the local population in the area of the Nuba Mountains have
intensified,

Welcoming the commitment of the Government of the Sudan to facilitate the
improved flow of information, as well as its stated strong commitment to
cooperate with the competent United Nations bodies and agencies, including the
Special Rapporteur,

Concerned by reports of religious persecution in areas of the conflict zone
controlled by the Government of the Sudan and of discrimination based upon
religion in the provision of shelter and relief,

Deeply concerned by the Special Rapporteur's conclusion that the abduction
of persons, mainly women and children, belonging to ethnic and religious
minorities from southern Sudan, the Nuba Mountains and the Ingassena Hills area,
and their subjection to the slave trade, servitude and forced labour are taking
place with the knowledge of the Government of the Sudan,

Welcoming the dialogue and contacts between non-governmental organizations
and the religious minorities in the Sudan aimed at improving relations between
the Government of the Sudan and the religious minority groups,

Noting that the Government of the Sudan has taken steps towards a larger
degree of cooperation with some international organizations, with special
attention to the rights of Sudanese children, and hoping that these efforts will
be enhanced in the future,

Deeply concerned about the problem of unaccompanied minors and the use of
children as soldiers by all parties despite repeated calls from the
international community to put an end to this practice, as described in the
report of the Special Rapporteur,58

1. Expresses deep concern at the serious, widespread and continuing human
rights violations in the Sudan, including extrajudicial killings and summary

                        

     57 Ibid., sect. III.A.

     58 Ibid., para. 34.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 45

executions; detentions without due process; violations of the rights of women
and children; forced displacement of persons; enforced or involuntary
disappearances; torture and other forms of cruel and unusual punishment;
slavery, practices similar to slavery and forced labour; denial of the freedoms
of expression, association and peaceful assembly; and discrimination based on
religion;

2. Calls upon the Government of the Sudan to comply with applicable
international human rights instruments to which the Sudan is a party, in
particular the International Covenants on Human Rights,52 the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,53 the
Convention on the Rights of the Child,54 the Slavery Convention, as amended,59 and
the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade and
Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery,60 to implement those instruments
to which it is a party and to ensure that all individuals in its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including members of all religious and ethnic
groups, enjoy fully the rights recognized in those instruments;

3. Urges the Government of the Sudan to ensure that all cases of slavery,
servitude, slave trade, forced labour and similar practices brought to its
attention are investigated and all appropriate measures are implemented to put
an immediate end to these practices;

4. Expresses its hope that the Special Investigation Committee on
Allegations of Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances and Reported Cases of
Slavery will contribute effectively to improving the human rights situation in
the Sudan;

5. Welcomes the statement by the Government of the Sudan, as reported by
the Special Rapporteur,61 in which it pledged its logistical support to national,
regional and international organizations to join the investigations of alleged
cases of involuntary disappearance and slavery, and, accordingly, calls upon the
Government to grant international human rights and humanitarian organizations
and independent observers free and unimpeded access to all areas where these
violations have been reported;

6. Welcomes the interim report of the Special Rapporteur to the General
Assembly, and his recent report to the Commission on Human Rights,62 and
expresses its continuing support for his work;

7. Continues to urge the placement of human rights monitors in such
locations as will facilitate improved information flow and assessment and
independent verification of reporting, with particular attention to violations

                        

     59 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 212, No. 2861.

     60 Ibid., vol. 266, No. 3822.

     61 A/51/490, annex, para. 43 (b).

     62 E/CN.4/1996/62.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 46

and abuses of human rights in areas of armed conflict, as recommended by the
Special Rapporteur;63

8. Urges the Government of the Sudan to cease immediately all aerial
attacks on civilian targets and other attacks that are in violation of
international humanitarian law;

9. Calls upon parties to the hostilities to respect fully the applicable
provisions of international humanitarian law, including article 3 common to the
Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949,64 and the Additional Protocols thereto, of
1977,65 to halt the use of weapons against the civilian population and to protect
all civilians, including women, children and members of ethnic and religious
minorities, from violations, including forcible displacement, arbitrary
detention, ill-treatment, torture and summary executions, and deplores the
consequences for innocent civilians of the use of landmines by government and
rebel forces alike;

10. Again calls upon the Government of the Sudan and all paries to allow
Operation Lifeline Sudan, international agencies, humanitarian organizations and
donor Governments unimpeded access to civilian populations to deliver
humanitarian assistance to all persons in need;

11. Welcomes the reported release of female detainees with children and
any other activities designed to assist such persons, and encourages the
Government of the Sudan to work actively for the eradication of practices that
are directed against and in particular violate the human rights of women and
girls, in full cooperation with the international organizations active in the
Sudan and focusing on the question, including the office of the United Nations
Children's Fund in Khartoum;

12. Urges the Government of the Sudan to take all steps necessary to
improve the situation of the most vulnerable groups of the society, the women,
children and ethnic and religious minorities living in the conflict zones, as
recommended by the Special Rapporteur;66

13. Urges all parties to the Sudan's civil war to seek a negotiated
settlement to the conflict immediately and encourages the parties to cooperate
with efforts by the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development to assist the
warring parties to put an end to the conflict and hasten a return of Sudanese
refugees residing in neighbouring countries;

14. Reiterates its call upon the Government of the Sudan to ensure a full,
thorough and prompt investigation by an independent judicial commission of

                        

     63 A/51/490, annex, para. 52 (c).

     64 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

     65 Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

     66 A/51/490, annex, para. 52 (d).

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 47

inquiry into the killings of Sudanese nationals employed by foreign relief
organizations and foreign Governments;

15. Urges the Government of the Sudan to cooperate fully with all United
Nations agencies, international humanitarian organizations, human rights
organizations and independent observers in order to improve the situation of
human rights in the Sudan, as recommended by the Special Rapporteur;67

16. Welcomes the decision of the Commission on Human Rights to extend the
mandate of the Special Rapporteur for an additional year;

17. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide the Special
Rapporteur with all necessary assistance in the discharge of his mandate;

18. Welcomes the approaches to the Special Rapporteurs of the Commission
on Human Rights by the Government of the Sudan, and again calls upon the
Government of the Sudan to extend its full and unreserved cooperation to the
Special Rapporteur and to thematic Special Rapporteurs and to assist them in the
ongoing discharge of their mandates and, to this end, to take all necessary
steps to ensure that the Special Rapporteurs have free and unlimited access to
the whole territory of the Sudan and to any person in the Sudan with whom they
wish to meet, with no threats or reprisals;

19. Recommends the continued monitoring of the serious human rights
situation in the Sudan and of the regional efforts to end the hostilities and
human suffering in the south, and invites the Commission on Human Rights, at its
fifty-third session, to give urgent attention to the situation of human rights
in the Sudan;

20. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-
second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Situation of human rights in Cuba

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the Charter of the
United Nations and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights68 and
other applicable human rights instruments,

                        

     67 Ibid., para. 52 (e).

     68 Resolution 217 A (III).

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 48

Noting that Cuba is a party to the Convention against Torture and Other
Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,69

Reaffirming also that all States have an obligation to fulfil the
commitments they have freely undertaken under the various international
instruments,

Taking particular note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/69 of
23 April 1996,70 in which the Commission recognized with deep appreciation the
past efforts of the Special Rapporteur concerning the situation of human rights
in Cuba and extended his mandate for one year,

Expressing concern about continuing serious violations of human rights in
Cuba, the majority of which are violations of civil and political rights, as
outlined in the interim report on the situation of human rights in Cuba
submitted to the General Assembly by the Special Rapporteur,71

Deploring, in this regard, the arbitrary arrest, detention and harassment
of Cuban citizens, particularly of members of the Concilio Cubano, a group
coordinating the activities of dozens of human rights groups, seeking to
exercise their human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Recalling the continued refusal of the Government of Cuba to cooperate with
the Commission on Human Rights with regard to its resolution 1996/69, including
its repeated opposition to a visit to Cuba by the Special Rapporteur,

1. Commends the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights for
his interim report on the situation of human rights in Cuba;

2. Expresses its full support for the work of the Special Rapporteur;

3. Calls once more upon the Government of Cuba to cooperate fully with
the Special Rapporteur by permitting him full and free access to establish
contact with the Government and the citizens of Cuba so that he may fulfil the
mandate entrusted to him;

4. Regrets profoundly the numerous violations of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in Cuba, as described in the report of the Special
Rapporteur to the Commission on Human Rights72 and in his interim report;71

5. Urges the Government of Cuba to ensure freedom of expression and
assembly and the freedom to demonstrate peacefully, including by allowing

                        

     69 Resolution 39/76, annex.

     70 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

     71 A/51/460, annex.

     72 E/CN.4/1996/60.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 49

political parties and non-governmental organizations to function freely in the
country and by reforming legislation in this area;

6. Calls especially upon the Government of Cuba to release the numerous
persons detained for activities of a political nature, including those
specifically mentioned in the report of the Special Rapporteur, who suffer from
inadequate medical care while imprisoned or whose rights as journalists or
jurists are impeded or denied;

7. Calls upon the Government of Cuba to carry out the recommendations
contained in the interim report of the Special Rapporteur to bring its
observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Cuba into conformity with
international standards and applicable international human rights instruments
and to end all violations of human rights including, in particular, the
detention and imprisonment of human rights defenders and others who are engaged
in the peaceful exercise of their rights, and to grant access to its prisons to
non-governmental humanitarian organizations and international humanitarian
agencies;

8. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-
second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Situation of human rights in Rwanda

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,73 the International Covenants on Human Rights,74 the Convention on
the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide75 and other applicable
standards of human rights and humanitarian law,

Recalling its resolutions 50/57 of 12 December 1995 and 50/200 of
22 December 1995, and taking note of Security Council resolutions 1050 (1996) of
8 March 1996, 1078 (1996) of 9 November 1996 and 1080 (1996) of
15 November 1996, and of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/76 of
23 April 1996,76

Deeply concerned by the reports of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission
on Human Rights and of the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda that genocide

                        

     73 Resolution 217 A (III).

     74 Resolution 2200 A (XXII), annex.

     75 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 212, No. I-2861.

     76 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 50

and systematic and widespread violations of international humanitarian law,
including crimes against humanity and grave violations and abuses of human
rights, were committed in Rwanda,

Recognizing that effective action must be taken to ensure that the
perpetrators of genocide and crimes against humanity are promptly brought to
justice, and noting in this regard that legislation to govern the prosecution of
those accused of genocide or crimes against humanity entered into force on
1 September 1996,

Noting with concern the implications of the current humanitarian crisis in
the region,

Welcoming the fact that considerable numbers of refugees have recently
returned to Rwanda, and affirming the readiness of the international community
to assist the Government of Rwanda in reintegrating these returnees,

Recognizing that effective action to prevent further violations of human
rights and fundamental freedoms must be a central and integral element of the
overall Rwandan and United Nations responses to the situation in Rwanda, and
that a strengthened human rights component is indispensable to the peace process
and post-conflict reconstruction of Rwanda,

Welcoming contributions made by Member States and the European Union to the
costs of the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda,

Welcoming also the commitment of the Government of Rwanda to protect and
promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to eliminate impunity
and to facilitate the process of the voluntary and safe return, resettlement and
reintegration of refugees, as reaffirmed in the agreements reached at Nairobi,
Bujumbura and Cairo in 1995 and at Tunis and Arusha in 1996, and urging
Governments in the region to work, in cooperation with the international
community, to find durable solutions to the refugee crisis,

Stressing its concern that the United Nations should continue to play an
active role in assisting the Government of Rwanda in facilitating the voluntary
and orderly return of refugees and the reintegration of returnees, in promoting
reconciliation, in consolidating a climate of confidence and stability, and in
promoting the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Rwanda,

Reaffirming the link between the voluntary return of refugees to their
homes and the normalization of the situation in Rwanda, and concerned that acts
of intimidation and violence directed against refugees, particularly by the
former Rwandan authorities, have prevented refugees from returning to their
homes,

Noting the United Nations support for all efforts to reduce tension and
restore stability in the Great Lakes region, including initiatives of the
Organization of African Unity, States in the region and international
organizations, and reiterating the urgent need for an international conference
on peace, security and development in the Great Lakes region, under the auspices

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 51

of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, to address the
problems of the region in a comprehensive manner,

1. Welcomes the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights on the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda77 and the report of the
Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights;78

I

2. Condemns in the strongest terms the acts of genocide, violations of
international humanitarian law and all violations and abuses of human rights
that have taken place in Rwanda, as well as cross-border violence in the region;

3. Expresses its deep concern at the intense suffering of the victims of
genocide and crimes against humanity, recognizes the ongoing suffering of their
survivors, particularly the extremely high number of traumatized children and
women victims of rape and sexual violence, and urges the international community
to provide adequate assistance to them and to note the priorities identified by
the Government of Rwanda in this area;

4. Reaffirms that all persons who committed or authorized acts of
genocide or other grave violations of international humanitarian law and those
who are responsible for grave violations of human rights are individually
responsible and accountable for those violations, and that the international
community must exert every effort, in cooperation with national and
international tribunals, to bring those responsible to justice, in accordance
with international principles of due process;

5. Urges all States to cooperate fully, without delay, with the
International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for
Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for
Genocide and other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring
States, between 1 January and 31 December 1994, taking into account the
obligations contained in Security Council resolutions 955 (1994) of
8 November 1994 and 978 (1995) of 27 February 1995, and encourages the
Secretary-General to facilitate the activities of the Tribunal to the greatest
extent possible;

II

6. Encourages the further efforts of the Government of Rwanda to
reconstruct the civil administration and the social, legal, economic and human
rights infrastructure of Rwanda, and in this regard welcomes the commitments
made by the Government of Rwanda to restore the rule of law and protect and
promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;

                        

     77 A/51/478.

     78 A/51/657.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 52

7. Invites all States, the organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to continue and
to intensify their contributions of financial and technical support to
accelerate the efforts of the Government of Rwanda to, inter alia, restore the
judicial system, promote reconciliation through the recently established
Commission for National Reconciliation and safely reintegrate returning refugees
in conditions of safety and dignity, including addressing competing claims to
housing and property;

8. Notes with concern the human rights situation in Rwanda as described
in the report of the Special Rapporteur, and urges the Government of Rwanda to
take all necessary measures in response to the recommendations therein;

9. Expresses grave concern at reports from the Human Rights Field
Operation in Rwanda of killings of civilians during attacks on survivors and
witnesses of genocide, apparently by militias and insurgents opposed to the
Government of Rwanda, and at the reports of the Field Operation which state that
civilians have been killed during military search operations by the Rwandese
Patriotic Army;

10. Encourages the Government of Rwanda to continue in its efforts to
further strengthen the judicial system, including its independence, and urges in
particular that the processing of the cases of those in detention be brought to
a conclusion expeditiously;

11. Notes with deep concern the reports of the Human Rights Field
Operation in Rwanda which state that government officials without legal
authority to arrest or imprison continue to do so in several parts of the
country, that detainees are held for very long periods before trial and that
acute overcrowding threatens the safety of those in detention;

12. Invites the Government of Rwanda to continue efforts to involve,
without any discrimination, all citizens not responsible for genocide or other
grave violations of international humanitarian law in its administrative,
judicial, political and security structures;

13. Emphasizes the importance it attaches to the safety and security of
all people in Rwanda, including United Nations personnel and other international
staff serving in the country;

14. Welcomes the efforts of the Government of Rwanda, neighbouring
countries, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and
the international community to resolve the ongoing humanitarian crisis, and
calls upon all parties to take all appropriate measures to ensure the return,
resettlement and reintegration of former refugees in conditions of safety and
dignity;

15. Commends and encourages the efforts of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees as well as the United Nations Development Programme and other United
Nations offices and organizations to coordinate their efforts to ensure respect

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 53

for and protection of the human rights of refugees during their return,
resettlement and reintegration;

III

16. Welcomes the measures taken by the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights, working in cooperation with and assisting the Government of
Rwanda, to put in place the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda, the
objectives of which were described in Assembly resolution 50/200, and requests
the High Commissioner to continue to report regularly on the activities of the
Field Operation and to continue to cooperate and share information with the
Special Rapporteur, in order to assist him in fulfilling his mandate; 

17. Welcomes also the cooperation the Government of Rwanda has extended to
the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Special Rapporteur
and the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda and the acceptance by the
Government of Rwanda of the deployment of human rights field officers throughout
the country and, with a view to further strengthening a climate of mutual
confidence and enabling authorities in Rwanda to take immediate action on the
findings of the Field Operation, encourages dialogue on human rights issues
between the Field Operation and the appropriate authorities at the level of
commune, prefecture, and relevant government ministries;

18. Commends the contribution of human rights officers and the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to the promotion and protection of
human rights in Rwanda, recognizes that a strong human rights component is an
integral and indispensable element of the United Nations response to the
situation in Rwanda, and encourages all agencies and organizations of the United
Nations system active in Rwanda to coordinate closely with the Field Operation;

19. Recognizes the importance of the United Nations Human Rights Field
Operation in Rwanda in contributing to reconciliation and the establishment of
confidence in the country, and recommends the strengthening of its presence
throughout Rwanda as well as the allocation of sufficient funds and logistical
support for that purpose, taking into account the need to train local human
rights observers and deploy a sufficient number of human rights field officers,
and recognizes also the need for programmes of technical assistance and advisory
services for and in consultation with the Government of Rwanda and for Rwandan
human rights organizations, and notes in particular the importance of
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Rwandan judiciary, and the
urgent need for adequate resources in this area;

20. Calls upon all States to respond to the appeal of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights and contribute urgently to the costs of the
Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda and to work for lasting solutions to its
financing problems, including through the regular budget of the United Nations;

21. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to
report on the activities of the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda to the
Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-third session, and to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 54

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Rape and abuse of women in the areas of
armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,79 the International Covenants on Human
Rights,80 the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of
Genocide,81 the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment or Punishment,82 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women,83 the Convention on the Rights of the Child84 and
other instruments of human rights and international humanitarian law, including
the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 194985 and the Additional Protocols thereto,
of 1977,86

Recalling its resolution 3074 (XXVIII) of 3 December 1973, entitled
"Principles of international cooperation in the detection, arrest, extradition
and punishment of persons guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity", as
well as Commission on Human Rights resolution 1994/77 of 9 March 1994,87 General
Assembly resolutions 48/143 of 20 December 1993, 49/205 of 23 December 1994 and
50/192 of 22 December 1995, and relevant resolutions of the Commission on the
Status of Women,

Reaffirming the relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular
resolution 798 (1992) of 18 December 1992, in which, inter alia, the Council
strongly condemned those acts of unspeakable brutality,

                        

     79 Resolution 217 A (III).

     80 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     81 Resolution 260 A (III).

     82 Resolution 39/46, annex.

     83 Resolution 34/180, annex.

     84 Resolution 44/25, annex.

     85 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

     86 Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.

     87 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1994, Supplement
No. 4 and corrigendum (E/1994/24 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 55

Welcoming the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, signed in Paris on 14 December 1995,88 as a key mechanism for
achieving a durable and just peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,

Taking note of the previous report of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in the territory of
the former Yugoslavia, regarding rape and abuse of women in the territory of the
former Yugoslavia, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, inter alia,
states that only sporadic cases of rape and sexual violence have occurred since
the previous report of the Secretary-General,89

Convinced that the heinous practice of rape, in fulfilling the policy of
ethnic cleansing, constitutes a deliberate weapon of war, and noting its
resolution 47/121 of 18 December 1992, in which it stated, inter alia, that the
abhorrent policy of ethnic cleansing was a form of genocide,

Desirous of ensuring that persons accused of authorizing, aiding and
perpetrating rape and sexual violence as a weapon of war in the areas of armed
conflict in the former Yugoslavia will be brought to justice without further
delay by the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible
for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the
Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991, where appropriate,

Underlining, in this context, the need for the protection of the rape
victims and the provision of effective guarantees of privacy and confidentiality
of the rape victims, and desirous of facilitating their participation in the
proceedings of the International Tribunal and ensuring that further
traumatization will be prevented,

Deeply alarmed at the situation facing victims of rape in armed conflicts
in different parts of the world and any use of rape as a weapon of war, in
particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina,

Noting with appreciation the efforts of Governments and the work of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, the World Health Organization, humanitarian
organizations, and non-governmental organizations aimed at supporting the
victims of rape and abuse and alleviating their suffering,

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General of 25 October 1996,90

submitted pursuant to resolution 50/192,

                        

     88 A/50/790-S/1995/999.

     89 A/50/329.

     90 A/51/557.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 56

1. Strongly condemns the abhorrent practice of rape and abuse of women
and children in the areas of armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia which
constitutes a war crime;

2. Expresses its outrage that the deliberate and systematic practice of
rape has been used as a weapon of war and an instrument of ethnic cleansing
against women and children in Bosnia and Herzegovina;

3. Reaffirms that rape in the conduct of armed conflict constitutes a war
crime and that under certain circumstances it constitutes a crime against
humanity and an act of genocide as defined in the Convention on the Prevention
and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, and calls upon States to take all
measures required for the protection of women and children from such acts and to
strengthen mechanisms to investigate and punish all those responsible and bring
the perpetrators to justice;

4. Also reaffirms that all persons who perpetrate or authorize crimes
against humanity or other violations of international humanitarian law are
individually responsible for those violations and that those in positions of
authority who have failed to ensure that persons under their control comply with
the relevant international instruments are accountable, together with the
perpetrators;

5. Reminds all States of their obligation to cooperate with the
International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious
Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the
Former Yugoslavia since 1991 in the investigation and prosecution of persons
accused of using rape as a weapon of war;

6. Calls upon States to put experts, including experts in the prosecution
of crimes of sexual violence, as well as adequate resources and services, at the
disposal of the Tribunal;

7. Urges all States and relevant organizations to continue to give
serious consideration to the recommendations in the reports of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in
the former Yugoslavia, in particular the recommendation concerning provision for
the continuation of necessary medical and psychological care to victims of rape
within the framework of programmes to rehabilitate women and children
traumatized by war, as well as the provision of protection, counselling and
support to victims and witnesses;

8. Recognizes the extraordinary suffering of the victims of rape and
sexual violence and the necessity for an appropriate response to provide
assistance to those victims, and expresses its concern, in particular, for the
welfare of those victims who are currently among the internally displaced or
otherwise affected by the war and who have experienced severe trauma and require
psychosocial and other assistance;

9. Also urges all States and all relevant intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations, as well as the United Nations Children's Fund,
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 57

Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization and the World Health Organization, to
continue to provide to the victims of such rape and abuse appropriate assistance
for their physical and mental rehabilitation and to extend their support to the
community-based assistance programmes;

10. Demands that the parties cooperate fully with the International
Committee of the Red Cross, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights, the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights and her staff,
as well as other mechanisms of the Commission on Human Rights, the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the monitoring and other missions of the
European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
including by providing full access;

11. Encourages the Special Rapporteur to continue to pay particular
attention to this question, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present
resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Situation of human rights in the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal 

Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,91 the International Covenants on Human
Rights92 and all other human rights instruments and instruments of international
humanitarian law, including the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 for the
protection of victims of war93 and the Additional Protocols thereto, of 1977,94 as
well as the principles and commitments undertaken by participating States of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil their obligations
under the human rights instruments to which they are party, and reaffirming also
the obligation of all to respect international humanitarian law,

                        

     91 Resolution 217 A (III).

     92 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     93 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. I-970 to I-973.

     94 Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. I-17512 and I-17513.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 58

Reaffirming the territorial integrity of all States in the region, within
their internationally recognized borders,

Welcoming the entry into force and implementation of the General Framework
Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the annexes thereto,
initialled at Dayton, Ohio, on 21 November 1995 and signed by Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro), representing also the Bosnian Serb party, at Paris, on
14 December 1995 (together, the "Peace Agreement"),95 which, inter alia,
committed the parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina to respect fully human rights,

Welcoming also the efforts of Member States in assisting in the
implementation of the Peace Agreement through their participation in the
Implementation Force and other activities directed at resolving the conflicts in
the former Yugoslavia, and commending the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe for the implementation of the mandates with which it was
entrusted by the Peace Agreement,

Welcoming further the basic agreement on the region of Eastern Slavonia,
Baranja and Western Sirmium (the "Basic Agreement"),96 signed on 12 November 1995
by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the local Serb representatives,
which created conditions permitting the establishment of the United Nations
Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium,
and Security Council resolution 1037 (1996) of 15 January 1996, by which the
Council established the Transitional Administration,

Welcoming the participation of Member States in the Transitional
Administration and other activities intended to facilitate implementation of the
Basic Agreement and the transition of the region of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja
and Western Sirmium from local Serb control to control by the Republic of
Croatia,

Recognizing the positive effects that the implementation of the Peace
Agreement and the Basic Agreement have had on the region since their respective
entry into force, in particular the return of peace to the region and the
increasing normalization of social, political and economic life,

Noting the Agreement on normalization of relations between the Republic of
Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro),97 in
particular article 7 thereof, which, inter alia, ensures conditions for the
return of refugees and displaced persons and the return of their property or a

                        

     95 See A/50/790-S/1995/999; see Official Records of the Security Council,
Fiftieth Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1995, document
S/1995/999.

     96 See A/50/757-S/1995/951; see Official Records of the Security Council,
Fiftieth Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1995, document
S/1995/951.

     97 A/51/318-S/1996/706, annex, and A/51/351-S/1996/744, annex.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 59

just compensation, and in that context stressing the positive impact of mutual
recognition agreements among successor States of the former Yugoslavia,

Welcoming the holding of elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina on
14 September 1996 with the assistance of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe and other organizations,

Gravely concerned nonetheless at the continuing evidence of violations of
human rights and fundamental freedoms taking place in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro),

Stressing the importance of an effective functioning of the International
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of
International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former
Yugoslavia since 1991, established pursuant to Security Council resolutions
808 (1993) of 22 February 1993 and 827 (1993) of 25 May 1993, for the positive
development of the situation of human rights in the region,

Acknowledging the progress made by the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
towards ethnic reconciliation in the region,

Calling upon all parties to the peace agreement to implement the necessary
measures in the furtherance of ethnic reconciliation in their respective
territories,

Underlining the relationship between the fulfilment by the parties of their
human rights commitments and the readiness of the international community to
commit resources for reconstruction and development,

Dismayed by the large number of missing persons still unaccounted for,
particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the Republic of Croatia, and
noting with approval the establishment of the International Commission on
Missing Persons in the Former Yugoslavia and the efforts of the expert member of
the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances and of the working
and expert groups on the missing, chaired respectively by the International
Committee of the Red Cross and the High Representative,

Expressing its particular concern for the situation of women and also that
of children, the elderly and refugees, internally displaced persons and
minorities, as well as other vulnerable groups in the region,

Calling attention to the reports and recommendations of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights, Mrs. Elizabeth Rehn, on the
situation of human rights in the territories of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the
Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro), including her most recent reports of 4 November 199698 and

                        

     98 A/51/651-S/1996/902.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 60

12 November 1996,99 and
especially the recommendations set forth therein,

Acknowledging efforts made by the Governments of the region to meet the
recommendations of the Special Rapporteur, which have yet to be implemented
fully,

Recalling the report on the situation of human rights in Croatia100

presented to the Security Council in application of Council resolution
1019 (1995) of 9 November 1995,

Recalling also its resolutions 50/192 and 50/193 of 22 December 1995,
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/71 of 23 April 1996101 and all
relevant resolutions of the Security Council, especially resolution 1009 (1995)
of 10 August 1995,

1. Expresses its serious concern about continuing human rights violations
within Bosnia and Herzegovina and the delays in fully implementing the human
rights provisions of the Peace Agreement;

2. Condemns in the strongest terms the continued forcible expulsion of
individuals from their homes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as has happened
recently in Banja Luka and Mostar, and the practice of destroying the homes of
those previously forcibly expelled, and calls for the immediate arrest and
punishment of individuals engaged in these actions;

3. Condemns the continuing restrictions on freedom of movement within the
Republika Srpska, within some parts of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
and between the Republika Srpska and the Federation;

4. Expresses concern for women and children, especially in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, who were victims of rape used as a weapon of war, and calls for the
perpetrators of rape to be brought to justice while ensuring that victims and
witnesses receive adequate assistance and protection;

5. Insists that all parties implement fully the commitments made in the
Peace Agreement to protect human rights, and also insists that the parties act
to promote and protect democratic institutions of government at all levels in
their respective countries, to ensure freedom of expression and of the media, to
allow and encourage freedom of association, including with respect to political
parties, and to ensure freedom of movement and that the parties in Bosnia and
Herzegovina comply with the human rights provisions of their national
Constitution;

                        

     99 A/51/663-S/1996/927.

     100 S/1996/691.

     101 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 61

6. Welcomes the conclusions of the meeting of the Ministerial Steering
Board and of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina held in Paris on
14 November 1996,102 in order to define the guiding principles of the civilian
consolidation plan of the peace process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular
in the field of human rights;

7. Calls upon the Peace Implementation Meeting to be held in London on
6 December 1996 to ensure that the promotion of human rights, including the
fulfilment of their respective human rights obligations by the parties to the
Peace Agreement, as well as the strengthening of national institutions, will be
a central element in the new civilian structure implementing the Peace
Agreement;

8. Calls upon the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to undertake substantially greater efforts to institute
democratic norms, especially in regard to the protection of free and independent
media, and full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;

9. Strongly urges the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to revoke all discriminatory legislation and to apply
all other legislation without discrimination and to take urgent action to
prevent arbitrary evictions and dismissals and discrimination against any ethnic
or national, religious or linguistic group;

10. Urgently demands that the authorities of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) take immediate action to put an end to the
repression of and prevent violence against non-Serb populations in Kosovo,
including acts of harassment, beatings, torture, warrantless searches, arbitrary
detention and unfair trials, and also to respect the rights of persons belonging
to minority groups in the Sandjak and Vojvodina and of persons belonging to the
Bulgarian minority;

11. Calls upon the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) to act immediately to allow free determination and full
participation by all residents in Kosovo in the political, economic, social and
cultural life of the region, particularly in the areas of education and health
care, and to ensure that all the residents of the region are guaranteed equal
treatment and protection regardless of ethnic affiliation;

12. Calls upon the Government of the Republic of Croatia to fully respect
human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights of persons belonging
to any national, ethnic, religious or linguistic minority;

13. Also calls upon the Government of the Republic of Croatia to undertake
greater efforts to adhere to democratic norms, especially in regard to the
Zagreb city council and the protection of free and independent media, and to
cooperate fully with the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium to assure that the reintegration of
Eastern Slavonia occurs peacefully and with respect for the human rights of all

                        

     102 S/1996/968, appendix.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 62

residents and returning displaced persons and refugees, including their right to
remain, leave or return in safety and dignity;

14. Calls for the full and consistent implementation of the Peace
Agreement and the Basic Agreement by all the parties to them;

15. Urges all the parties to the Peace Agreement to create the necessary
political, social and economic conditions for the return of refugees and
displaced persons in safety and dignity;

16. Insists that all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina cooperate fully
with the Commission on Human Rights for Bosnia and Herzegovina, created under
annex 6 to the Peace Agreement, in particular by providing information requested
by the Human Rights Ombudsman and by participating in hearings before the Human
Rights Chamber, and demands that the Republika Srpska cease its pattern of
non-cooperation with the Commission;

17. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights for Bosnia and Herzegovina
to intensify its activities concerning alleged or apparent violations of human
rights, or alleged or apparent discrimination of any kind;

18. Welcomes the commitments of the international community for post-war
reconstruction and development assistance, and encourages the expansion of this
assistance, while noting that such assistance should be conditioned on full
compliance by the parties with agreements that have been made;

19. Urges the parties to create the necessary conditions for free and fair
municipal elections to be held as soon as possible and as envisaged in the Peace
Agreement, under the supervision of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe;

20. Welcomes the enactment by the Republic of Croatia on 20 September 1996
of a new general amnesty law, intended in part to promote confidence on the part
of the local Serb population, and calls for the proper implementation of that
law;

21. Calls upon the Government of the Republic of Croatia to allow the
expeditious return of all refugees and displaced persons and to use all
available means to secure their safety and human rights, and to investigate and
arrest those responsible for acts of violence and intimidation aimed at driving
people away;

22. Strongly condemns the continuing refusal of the authorities of the
Republika Srpska, the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro), certain other elements within the Federation and to some extent
the Government of the Republic of Croatia to arrest and surrender indicted war
criminals known to be present in their territories, as they have agreed to do
under the Peace Agreement;

23. Urgently calls upon all States and all parties to the Peace Agreement
to meet their obligations to cooperate fully with the International Tribunal for
the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 63

Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991,
as required by Security Council resolution 827 (1993), including with respect to
surrendering persons sought by the International Tribunal, and urges all States
and the Secretary-General to support the International Tribunal to the fullest
extent possible, in particular, by helping to ensure that persons indicted by
the Tribunal stand trial before it;

24. Demands that the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular
the authorities of the Republika Srpska, and the Government of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) ensure full and free access to
their territories to all institutions and organizations concerned with the
implementation of the present resolution, including non-governmental
organizations;

25. Welcomes the interim reports98,99 of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in the territories
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and commends the Special Rapporteur and the
United Nations Human Rights Field Operation in the former Yugoslavia for their
continuing efforts;

26. Urges all parties to implement fully the recommendations of the
Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights;

27. Calls upon the authorities of the States and entities within the
mandate of the Special Rapporteur to cooperate with her and to provide her on a
regular basis with information about the actions they are taking to implement
her recommendations;

28. Reaffirms, as recommended previously by the Special Rapporteur, that
major reconstruction aid must be made conditional on demonstrated respect for
human rights, emphasizes in that context the necessity of cooperation with the
International Tribunal, and welcomes in this regard the conclusions of the
meeting of the Steering Board and of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
held in Paris on 14 November 1996;102

29. Welcomes the efforts of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe, the Council of Europe, the European Community Monitoring Mission and
the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in monitoring and
strengthening the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in Bosnia
and Herzegovina and the region;

30. Calls upon the parties to the Peace Agreement to take immediate steps
to determine the identity, the whereabouts and the fate of missing persons, in
particular near Srebrenica, Z  epa, Prijedor, Sanski Most and Vukovar, including
through close cooperation with the International Commission on Missing Persons
in the Former Yugoslavia, other international humanitarian organizations and
independent experts, and commends the work undertaken by the expert member of
the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances of the Commission on
Human Rights, the Special Rapporteur, the Working Group on the process for
tracing persons unaccounted for, chaired by the International Committee of the
Red Cross, and the Expert Group on Exhumation and Missing Persons, chaired by

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 64

the High Representative, and stresses the importance of coordinating work in
this area;

31. Encourages all Governments to respond favourably to appeals for
voluntary contributions for the benefit of the Commission on Human Rights for
Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Commission for Real Property Claims of Refugees and
Displaced Persons for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the International Commission on
Missing Persons in the Former Yugoslavia, the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights/Centre for Human Rights and other institutions of
reconciliation, democracy and justice in the region;

32. Decides to continue its examination of this question at its fifty-
second session under the item entitled "Human rights questions".

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

Situation of human rights in Myanmar

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and
protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as stated in the Charter of the
United Nations and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,103

the International Covenants on Human Rights104 and other applicable human rights
instruments,

Aware that, in accordance with the Charter, the Organization promotes and
encourages respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and that
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that the will of the people
shall be the basis of the authority of government,

Recalling its resolution 50/194 of 22 December 1995,

Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1992/58 of
3 March 1992,105 in which the Commission, inter alia, decided to nominate a
special rapporteur to establish direct contacts with the Government and with the
people of Myanmar, including political leaders deprived of their liberty, their
families and their lawyers, with a view to examining the situation of human
rights in Myanmar and following any progress made towards the transfer of power
to a civilian Government and the drafting of a new constitution, the lifting of
restrictions on personal freedoms and the restoration of human rights in
Myanmar,

                        

     103 Resolution 217 A (III).

     104 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

     105 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992,
Supplement No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. II, sect. A.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 65

Recalling further Commission on Human Rights resolution 1996/80 of
23 April 1996,106 in which the Commission decided to extend for one year the
mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar,

Noting with concern that the Government of Myanmar has not yet agreed to
visits by a representative of the Secretary-General and by the Special
Rapporteur,

Gravely concerned that the Government of Myanmar still has not implemented
its commitment to take all necessary steps towards democracy in the light of the
results of the elections held in 1990,

Recalling the release without conditions of Nobel Peace Prize Laureate
Aung San Suu Kyi on 10 July 1995,

Gravely concerned at the travel and other restrictions placed on
Aung San Suu Kyi and other political leaders and at the recent mass arrests of
members and supporters of the National League for Democracy for peacefully
exercising their right to freedom of expression, assembly and association, and
alarmed by the attack, on 9 November 1996, on Aung San Suu Kyi and other members
of the National League for Democracy,

Recalling the withdrawal and subsequent exclusion from the National
Convention of members of the National League for Democracy in late 1995,

Regretting the failure of the Government of Myanmar to open a political
dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi and other political leaders, including
representatives of ethnic groups,

Gravely concerned at the continued violations of human rights in Myanmar,
as reported by the Special Rapporteur, including extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions, killings of civilians, torture, arbitrary arrest and
detention, deaths in custody, absence of due process of law, severe restrictions
on freedoms of opinion, expression, assembly and association, violations of
freedom of movement, forced relocation, forced labour and portering and the
imposition of oppressive measures directed in particular at ethnic and religious
minorities,

Recalling the observation made by the Special Rapporteur, that the absence
of respect for the rights pertaining to democratic governance is at the root of
all the major violations of human rights in Myanmar,

Recalling also the conclusion of ceasefire agreements between the
Government of Myanmar and several ethnic groups,

Noting that the human rights situation in Myanmar has resulted in flows of
refugees to neighbouring countries, thus creating problems for the countries
concerned,

                        

     106 See E/1996/L.18; to be issued in final form in Official Records of the
Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 3 (E/1996/23).

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 66

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Special Rapporteur of the Commission
on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Myanmar for his interim
report,107 and urges the Government of Myanmar to cooperate fully with the
Special Rapporteur;

2. Also expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his
report;108

3. Deplores the continued violations of human rights in Myanmar;

4. Requests the Government of Myanmar to permit unrestricted
communication with and physical access to Nobel Peace Prize Laureate
Aung San Suu Kyi and other political leaders by members and supporters of the
National League for Democracy and to protect their physical well-being;

5. Strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to release immediately and
unconditionally detained political leaders and all political prisoners, to
ensure their physical integrity and to permit them to participate in the process
of national reconciliation;

6. Urges the Government of Myanmar to engage, at the earliest possible
date, in a substantive political dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi and other
political leaders, including representatives of ethnic groups, as the best means
of promoting national reconciliation and the full and early restoration of
democracy;

7. Welcomes the discussions between the Government of Myanmar and the
Secretary-General, and further encourages the Government of Myanmar to allow a
visit by the Representative of the Secretary-General, as soon as possible, in
order to allow for a broader dialogue in Myanmar;

8. Again urges the Government of Myanmar, in conformity with its
assurances given at various times, to take all necessary steps towards the
restoration of democracy in accordance with the will of the people as expressed
in the democratic elections held in 1990 and to ensure that political parties
and non-governmental organizations can function freely;

9. Expresses its concern that most of the representatives duly elected in
1990 are still excluded from participating in the meetings of the National
Convention, created to prepare basic elements for the drafting of a new
constitution, and that one of its objectives is to maintain the participation of
the armed forces in a leading role in the future political life of the State,
and notes also with concern that the working procedures of the National
Convention do not permit the elected representatives of the people freely to
express their views;

                        

     107 A/51/466.

     108 A/51/660.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 67

10. Strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to take all appropriate
measures to allow all citizens to participate freely in the political process,
in accordance with the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
and to accelerate the process of transition to democracy, in particular through
the transfer of power to democratically elected representatives;

11. Also strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to ensure full respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and
assembly, the right to fair trial and the protection of the rights of persons
belonging to ethnic and religious minorities, and to put an end to violations of
the right to life and integrity of the human being, to the practices of torture,
abuse of women, forced labour and forced relocations, and to enforced
disappearances and summary executions;

12. Appeals to the Government of Myanmar to consider becoming a party to
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,104 and the
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights104 and the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or
Punishment;109

13. Strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to fulfil its obligations as
a State party to the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29), and to the Freedom
of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention, 1948
(No. 87), of the International Labour Organization, and encourages the
Government of Myanmar to cooperate more closely with the International Labour
Organization;

14. Stresses the importance for the Government of Myanmar to give
particular attention to conditions in the country's jails and to allow the
International Committee of the Red Cross to communicate freely and
confidentially with prisoners;

15. Calls upon the Government of Myanmar and other parties to the
hostilities in Myanmar to respect fully the obligations under international
humanitarian law, including article 3 common to the Geneva Conventions of
12 August 1949,110 to halt the use of weapons against the civilian population and
to protect all civilians, including children, women and persons belonging to
ethnic or religious minorities, from violations of humanitarian law, and to
avail itself of such services as may be offered by impartial humanitarian
bodies;

16. Encourages the Government of Myanmar to create the necessary
conditions to ensure an end to the movements of refugees to neighbouring
countries and to create conditions conducive to their voluntary return and their
full reintegration, in conditions of safety and dignity;

                        

     109 Resolution 39/46, annex.

     110 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

/...



A/51/619/Add.3
English
Page 68

17. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his discussions with the
Government of Myanmar in order to assist in the implementation of the present
resolution and its efforts for national reconciliation and to report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session and to the Commission on Human
Rights at its fifty-third session;

18. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-
second session.

* * *

72. The Third Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Situation of human rights in Estonia and Latvia

The General Assembly, having concluded the consideration of the question on
the basis of the information provided by the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights, on behalf of the Secretary-General, pursuant to its resolution
48/155 of 20 December 1993, entitled "Situation of human rights in Estonia and
Latvia", welcomes and encourages the activities undertaken and being undertaken
in this regard, by relevant regional and international organizations, including
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, as well as the measures
by the Governments of Estonia and Latvia in implementation of the
recommendations of those organizations.

DRAFT DECISION II

Documents considered by the General Assembly in connection with
human rights questions:  human rights situations and reports 

of Special Rapporteurs and Representatives

The General Assembly takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on
the situation of human rights in southern Lebanon and western Bekaa111 and the
note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur
on the Situation of human rights in Burundi.112

-----

                        

     111 A/51/507.

     112 A/51/459.


