





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
LIMITED

A/51/L.26
25 November 1996

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 21 (b)

STRENGTHENING OF THE COORDINATION OF HUMANITARIAN AND DISASTER
RELIEF ASSISTANCE OF THE UNITED NATIONS, INCLUDING SPECIAL
ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE: SPECIAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE TO

INDIVIDUAL COUNTRIES OR REGIONS

Cameroon: draft resolution

Emergency assistance to the Sudan

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 43/8 of 18 October and 43/52 of 6 December 1988,
44/12 of 24 October 1989, 45/226 of 21 December 1990, 46/178 of
19 December 1991, 47/162 of 18 December 1992, 48/200 of 21 December 1993,
49/21 K of 20 December 1994 and 50/58 J of 22 December 1995 on assistance to the
Sudan,

Noting the declining contributions to the 1996 consolidated inter-agency
appeal for Operation Lifeline Sudan despite the progress made in the Operation,
and noting also that considerable relief needs still remain to be addressed, in
particular in the areas of non-food assistance, including assistance to combat
malaria, and for logistics, emergency recovery, rehabilitation and development,

Recognizing the need in emergency situations to address the continuum of
relief, rehabilitation and development so as to reduce dependence on external
food aid and other relief services,

96-33667 (E) 251196 /...



A/51/L.26
English
Page 2

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General of
4 September 19961 and of the statement by the representative of the Sudan
before the General Assembly on 21 November 1996,2

1. Acknowledges with appreciation the cooperation by the Government of
the Sudan with the United Nations, including the agreements and arrangements
achieved to facilitate relief operations towards improvement of United Nations
assistance to affected areas, and encourages the continuation of that
cooperation;

2. Stresses the need for Operation Lifeline Sudan to be operated with a
view to ensuring its efficiency, transparency and effectiveness, with the full
participation of the Government of the Sudan in its management and operation,
including conducting of assessment, allocation, distribution and evaluation
processes, as well as consultations in the preparation of the consolidated
annual inter-agency appeal for the Operation;

3. Stresses also that Operation Lifeline Sudan should operate within the
principle of national sovereignty and the framework of international cooperation
in accordance with relevant national and international law;

4. Calls upon the international community to continue to contribute
generously to the emergency needs, recovery and development of the country;

5. Urges the international community to give priority to assistance for
the rehabilitation of roads, railways and airports and to provision of means of
road transport in order to facilitate relief supplies to the affected areas;

6. Calls upon the donor community and the organizations of the United
Nations system to provide financial, technical and medical assistance, guided by
the actions called for by the General Assembly in its relevant resolutions to
combat malaria and other epidemics in the Sudan;

7. Welcomes the signing in April 1996 of the political charter between
the Government and many factions of the rebel movement for the achievement of
peace in the Sudan, and encourages the remaining factions to join the peace
process so as to establish durable peace and stability in the country and to
facilitate relief efforts;

8. Urges the international community to support the programmes of
rehabilitation, settlement and integration of returnees, refugees and the
internally displaced;

9. Stresses the importance of assuring safe access for personnel
providing relief assistance to all in need, and the importance of strict
observance of the principles and guidelines of Operation Lifeline Sudan;

1 A/51/326.

2 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session,
Plenary Meetings, 62nd meeting.

/...



A/51/L.26
English
Page 3

10. Urges all parties involved to continue to offer all feasible
assistance, including facilitating the movement of relief supplies and
personnel, so as to guarantee maximum success of Operation Lifeline Sudan in all
affected parts of the country, with special emphasis on national capacity-
building in the humanitarian field for governmental and non-governmental
organizations;

11. Also urges all the parties to the conflict to desist from using
anti-personnel mines, and calls upon the international community to refrain from
supplying mines to the parties of the conflict and to provide the Government of
the Sudan with financial and technical assistance in mine clearance;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to mobilize and coordinate
resources and support for Operation Lifeline Sudan and to report on the
emergency situation in the affected areas and the recovery, rehabilitation and
development of the country to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session.

-----


