





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/566/Add.21
29 November 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 81

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON
THE STRENGTHENING OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

Report of the First Committee (Part XXII)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Parfait-Serge ONANGA-ANYANGA (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The First Committee considered agenda item 81 jointly with all the other
items relating to disarmament and international security (for details, see
A/51/566). For the documents before the Committee under item 81, see A/51/566,
paragraph 3.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/51/L.42 and Rev.1

2. At the 16th meeting of the Committee, on 6 November 1996, the
representative of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia introduced a draft
resolution entitled "The maintenance of international security - prevention of
the violent disintegration of States" (A/C.1/51/L.42). Subsequently, Austria,
Belgium, the Congo, Denmark, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Zaire joined
in sponsoring the draft resolution.

3. On 13 November, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/51/L.42/Rev.1) submitted by the same sponsors, and Azerbaijan, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Norway, the Republic of Moldova,

* The reports of the Committee on all the agenda items relating to
disarmament and international security (items 60, 61 and 63-81) will be issued
under the symbol A/51/566 and addenda.

96-34639 (E) 051296 /...



A/51/566/Add.21
English
Page 2

the Russian Federation, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the United States of America, subsequently joined by
Albania, Ecuador and Ukraine, which contained the following changes:

(a) A new operative paragraph 4 was inserted, reading:

"4. Affirms also the need for strict compliance with the principle of
the territorial integrity of any State",

and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly;

(b) In operative paragraph 5 (former paragraph 4), after the words
"relevant international", the word "governmental" was deleted.

4. At its 24th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.42/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 137 to none, with 7 abstentions (see
para. 7). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Algeria, China, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Pakistan,
United Republic of Tanzania.

/...



A/51/566/Add.21
English
Page 3

B. Draft decision A/C.1/51/L.22

5. At the 14th meeting, on 4 November, the representative of Colombia, on
behalf of the States Members that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, introduced a draft decision entitled "Review of the implementation of
the Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security" (A/C.1/51/L.22).

6. At its 24th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.1/51/L.22 by a recorded vote of 95 to none, with 51 abstentions (see
para. 8). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/...



A/51/566/Add.21
English
Page 4

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The maintenance of international security - prevention
of the violent disintegration of States

The General Assembly,

Recalling the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Convinced that the observance of the Charter and the principles of
international law is essential for the strengthening of international peace and
security,

Considering the emergence of new opportunities for building a peaceful
world,

Mindful of the obligations of all States under the Charter, inter alia, to
refrain in their international relations from threat or use of force against the
territorial integrity or political independence of any State, to develop
friendly relations among nations and to promote and encourage respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex,
language or religion,

Deeply concerned that situations that may lead to a breach of international
peace are continuing in spite of the efforts of the United Nations to put an end
to them and to avert such conflicts in the future,

Stressing the importance of the activities of the international
organizations, such as the Organization of African Unity, the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Organization of American States, the
Association of South-East Asian Nations, the Council of Europe, the League of
Arab States and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, with the aim of
preventing the violent disintegration of States, of maintaining international
peace and security and of promoting international cooperation for development,

Considering that the violent disintegration of States may threaten the
maintenance of international peace and security,

Affirming the need for United Nations measures to help prevent the violent
disintegration of States, thereby enhancing the maintenance of international
peace and security and the economic and social advancement of all peoples,

1. Calls upon all States, the relevant international organizations and
competent organs of the United Nations to continue to undertake measures in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations as appropriate to help prevent
the violent disintegration of States;

/...



A/51/566/Add.21
English
Page 5

2. Stresses the importance of good-neighbourliness and the development of
friendly relations among States to the solution of problems among States, to
prevent the violent disintegration of States and to promote international
cooperation in accordance with the Charter;

3. Affirms the need for strict compliance with the principle of the
inviolability of international borders among States;

4. Affirms also the need for strict compliance with the principle of the
territorial integrity of any State;

5. Requests all States and the relevant international organizations to
communicate to the Secretary-General their views on the maintenance of
international security - prevention of the violent disintegration of States;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third
session an item entitled "The maintenance of international security - prevention
of the violent disintegration of States".

* * *

8. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decision:

Review of the implementation of the Declaration on
the Strengthening of International Security

The General Assembly decides to include in the provisional agenda of its
fifty-second session the item entitled "Review of the implementation of the
Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security."

-----


