





































UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/566/Add.17
29 November 1996
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 77

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE INDIAN OCEAN
AS A ZONE OF PEACE

Report of the First Committee (Part XVIII)*

Rapporteur: Mr. Parfait-Serge ONANGA-ANYANGA (Gabon)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The First Committee considered agenda item 77 jointly with all the other
items relating to disarmament and international security (for details, see
A/51/566). For the documents before the Committee under item 77, see A/51/566,
paragraph 3.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/51/L.13

2. At the 15th meeting of the Committee, on 6 November 1996, the
representative of Colombia, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace" (A/C.1/51/L.13).

* The reports of the Committee on all the agenda items relating to
disarmament and international security (items 60, 61 and 63-81) will be issued
under the symbol A/51/566 and addenda.

96-34615 (E) 041296 /...

*9634615*



A/51/566/Add.17
English
Page 2

3. At its 23rd meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/51/L.13 by a recorded vote of 106 to 3, with 35 abstentions (see para. 4).
The voting was as follows:1

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica,
Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zimbabwe.

Against: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Albania, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Turkey.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

4. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

1 The delegation of Zambia subsequently indicated that had it been present
it would have voted in favour of the draft resolution, and the delegation of
Andorra indicated that had it been present it would have abstained.

/...



A/51/566/Add.17
English
Page 3

Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace

The General Assembly,

Recalling the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace, contained
in its resolution 2832 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, and recalling also its
resolution 50/76 of 12 December 1995 and other relevant resolutions,

Recalling also the report of the Meeting of the Littoral and Hinterland
States of the Indian Ocean held in July 1979,2

Emphasizing the need to foster consensual approaches, in particular given
the prevailing international climate, which is conducive to the pursuit of such
endeavours,

Noting the initiatives taken by countries in the region to promote
cooperation, in particular economic cooperation, in the Indian Ocean area and
the possible contribution of such initiatives to overall objectives of a zone of
peace,

Convinced that the participation of all the permanent members of the
Security Council and the major maritime users of the Indian Ocean in the work of
the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean is important and would assist the
progress of mutually beneficial dialogue to develop conditions of peace,
security and stability in the Indian Ocean region,

Having considered the report of the Ad Hoc Committee,3 including the
statement by its Chairman on 8 July 1996, as contained in paragraph 8 of the
report,

1. Takes note of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean;3

2. Reiterates its conviction that the participation of all the permanent
members of the Security Council and the major maritime users of the Indian Ocean
in the work of the Ad Hoc Committee is important and would greatly facilitate
the development of a mutually beneficial dialogue to advance peace, security and
stability in the Indian Ocean region;

3. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to examine its future work, taking into
account, inter alia, the statement made by the Chairman on 8 July 1996, and to
make recommendations for consideration by the General Assembly at its fifty-
second session;

4. Also requests the Ad Hoc Committee to hold a session during 1997, of a
duration of not more than three working days;

2 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 45 and corrigendum (A/34/45 and Corr.1).

3 Ibid., Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 29 (A/51/29).

/...



A/51/566/Add.17
English
Page 4

5. Further requests the Ad Hoc Committee to submit to the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session a report on the implementation of the
present resolution;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to render all necessary
assistance to the Ad Hoc Committee, including the provision of summary records;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace".

-----


