


















































current.wpf


UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/746
13 January 1997

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda item 122

UNITED NATIONS PENSION SYSTEM

Report of the Fifth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Igor V. GOUMENNY (Ukraine)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1996, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-first session the item entitled "United Nations pension system" and to
allocate it to the Fifth Committee.

2. The Fifth Committee considered the item at its 32nd to 34th, 36th, 37th,
39th, 46th and 47th meetings, on 25, 27 and 29 November and 4, 6, 11, 17 and
18 December 1996. Comments and observations made in the course of the
Committee's consideration of the item are reflected in the relevant summary
records (A/C.5/51/SR.32-34, 36, 37, 39, 46 and 47).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board;1

(b) Report of the International Civil Service Commission for the year
1996;2

(c) Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions (A/51/644);

                        

     1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement
No. 9 and corrigendum (A/51/9 and Corr.1).

     2 Ibid., Supplement No. 30 (A/51/30).

97-00835 (E) 160197 /...



A/51/746
English
Page 2

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the investments of the United
Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund (A/C.5/51/4).

4. At the 32nd meeting, on 25 November, the Chairman of the United Nations
Joint Staff Pension Board introduced the report of the Board, and the
representative of the Secretary-General for the investments of the Fund
introduced the report of the Secretary-General on the investments of the Fund
(see A/C.5/51/SR.32).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.5/51/L.36

5. At the 46th meeting, on 17 December, the representative of New Zealand
introduced a draft resolution entitled "United Nations pension system"
(A/C.5/51/L.36), submitted by the Chairman on the basis of informal
consultations.

6. At the 47th meeting, on 18 December, the representative of Ukraine proposed
that consideration of section IV of draft resolution A/C.5/51/L.36 be deferred
until the resumed fifty-first session. Statements were made by the
representatives of the Russian Federation and Ukraine (see A/C.5/51/SR.47).

7. At the same meeting, the Committee rejected the proposal to defer
consideration of section IV of draft resolution A/C.5/51/L.36 by a recorded vote
of 18 to 4, with 61 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Estonia, Latvia, Marshall Islands, Ukraine.

Against: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, France, Germany, India, Japan, Kazakstan, Morocco, New
Zealand, Russian Federation, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Zambia.

Abstaining: Algeria, Andorra, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bolivia,
Botswana, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Kenya, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Malta, Mexico, Namibia, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Thailand, The former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zimbabwe.

8. After the vote, statements were made by the representatives of Ukraine,
Germany, France and Austria.

9. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 129 of the rules of procedure
of the General Assembly, the representative of Ukraine proposed the deletion of
section IV of draft resolution A/C.5/51/L.36. Statements were made by the
representatives of Senegal, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 3

10. At the same meeting, the Committee rejected the proposal to delete
section IV of draft resolution A/C.5/51/L.36 by a recorded vote of 31 to 2, with
50 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Latvia, Ukraine.

Against: Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium,
Brazil, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakstan,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Morocco, New Zealand, Republic of
Korea, Russian Federation, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America, Zambia.

Abstaining: Australia, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bolivia,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Egypt,
Estonia, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Jamaica, Kenya, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Lithuania, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico,
Namibia, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Sierra Leone, Slovakia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, The
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zimbabwe.

11. After the vote, the representative of Ukraine made a statement.

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Ukraine requested a separate
vote on section IV of draft resolution A/C.5/51/L.36.

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted section IV of draft resolution
A/C.5/51/L.36 by a recorded vote of 32 to 1, with 48 abstentions. The voting
was as follows:

In favour: Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Costa
Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Guyana, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Kazakstan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Morocco, New Zealand,
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Spain, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Zambia.

Against: Ukraine.

Abstaining: Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia,
Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Jamaica, Latvia, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Lithuania, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Namibia,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Zimbabwe.

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 4

14. After the vote, the representative of Germany made a statement.

15. At the same meeting, the representative of Ukraine requested a recorded
vote on draft resolution A/C.5/51/L.36 as a whole.

16. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.5/51/L.36
by a recorded vote of 78 to 1, with 19 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil,
Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritania, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, New Zealand, Norway,
Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian
Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, The former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of
America, Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Ukraine.

Abstaining: Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Ecuador, Estonia, Hungary,
Jamaica, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Lithuania, Mexico,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Republic of Moldova,
Uruguay, Venezuela.

17. After the vote, statements were made by the representatives of Austria,
Latvia and Estonia.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE

18. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

United Nations pension system

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 45/242 of 21 December 1990, 46/192 of
20 December 1991, 47/203 of 22 December 1992, 48/224 and 48/225 of
23 December 1993 and 49/224 of 23 December 1994, section VII of resolution
50/216 of 23 December 1995 and decision 50/485 of 7 June 1996,

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 5

Having considered the report of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension
Board for 1996 to the General Assembly and to the member organizations of the
United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund,3 chapter III of the report of the
International Civil Service Commission for the year 1996,4 the report of the
Secretary-General on the investments of the Fund5 and the related report of the
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,6 

I

ACTUARIAL MATTERS

Recalling section II of its resolution 47/203, section II of its resolution
48/225 and section I of its resolution 49/224,

Having considered the results of the valuation of the United Nations Joint
Staff Pension Fund as at 31 December 1995 and the observations thereon of the
Consulting Actuary of the Fund, the Committee of Actuaries and the Board, 

1. Takes note of the decrease in the actuarial imbalance from 1.49 to
1.46 per cent of pensionable remuneration, reflected in the valuation of the
Fund as at 31 December 1995, and in particular of the opinions provided by the
Consulting Actuary and the Committee of Actuaries, as reproduced in annexes IV
and V, respectively, to the report of the Board,3 that there was no requirement,
as at 31 December 1995, for deficiency payments under article 26 of the
Regulations of the Fund and that the current contribution rate of 23.7 per cent
of pensionable remuneration could be maintained for funding purposes, pending a
review at the time of the next valuation, as at 31 December 1997, and in the
light of future developments;

2. Takes note also of the reviews by the Standing Committee of the
Pension Board in 1995 and the Board in 1996 of the interest rate used to
determine lump-sum commutations, and of the decision by the Board, under
article 11 of the Regulations of the Fund, to retain the current 6.5 per cent
interest rate, which would be reviewed again by the Board in 1998;

3. Takes note further of the review by the Board of further amendments
required to article 28 of the Regulations of the Fund as a consequence of the
increase in the maximum number of years of creditable contributory service that
had been adopted by the General Assembly in resolution 49/224 and had entered
into effect on 1 July 1995;

                        

     3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement
No. 9 and corrigendum (A/51/9 and Corr.1).

     4 Ibid., Supplement No. 30 (A/51/30).

     5 A/C.5/51/4.

     6 A/51/644.

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 6

4. Approves, with retroactive effect as from 1 July 1996, amendments to
paragraphs (d) and (g) of article 28 of the Regulations of the Fund, as set out
in annex I to the present resolution.

II

PENSIONABLE REMUNERATION OF STAFF IN THE PROFESSIONAL
AND HIGHER CATEGORIES AND IN THE GENERAL SERVICE AND 

RELATED CATEGORIES

Recalling paragraph 3 of section I of its resolution 45/242 and paragraph 4
of section III of its resolution 47/203 concerning its request to the
International Civil Service Commission to undertake, in full cooperation with
the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board, a further comprehensive review of
the methodology for the determination of the scale of pensionable remuneration
of staff in the Professional and higher categories, for monitoring the level of
the scale and for its adjustment between comprehensive reviews, and to submit
recommendations thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, in
1996,

Recalling also section I of its resolution 48/225, in which it approved
(a) the use of the income replacement approach to determine the pensionable
remuneration for staff in the General Service and related categories; (b) the
application of an interim adjustment procedure similar to that applicable to
staff in the Professional and higher categories, namely on the basis of a 1:1
relationship to increases in the net salaries; and (c) the procedure recommended
by the Commission for determining a common staff assessment scale, with two
separate sets of rates (single and dependent), for introduction in 1997,

Recalling further its request, in the same resolution to the Commission, in
close cooperation with the Pension Board and as part of the comprehensive review
in 1996 of the methodology to determine the pensionable remuneration and
consequent pensions of staff in the Professional and higher categories, to
develop a common staff assessment scale for the determination of the pensionable
remuneration of all categories of staff using the approved procedure and
reflecting the latest available tax rates,

Noting with satisfaction that the close cooperation between the Commission
and the Board has resulted in agreement between the two bodies on the
methodologies for determining the pensionable remuneration for all categories of
staff and on the development and application of a common staff assessment scale
for pensionable remuneration purposes, as reflected in their respective reports,

Noting that the Commission, in accordance with article 10 (d) of its
statute, has developed the common staff assessment scale for pensionable
remuneration purposes, contained in annex IV to the report of the Commission,4

taking into account the views of the Board as set out in paragraphs 152 to 159
of its report3 and the considerations set out in paragraphs 83 to 89 of the
report of the Commission,

Recalling its decision in section III of resolution 51/216 of
18 December 1996 that the common scale of staff assessment recommended by the

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 7

Commission should be applied in determining the pensionable remuneration for all
categories of staff, with effect from 1 January 1997, subject, in the case of
staff in the General Service and related categories, to the procedure set out in
paragraph 107 of the report of the Commission,

1. Decides, as regards staff in the Professional and higher categories,
that:

(a) The income replacement in New York should continue to be used as the
basis for the methodology for the determination of the pensionable remuneration
of such staff;

(b) The methodology to determine the current scale of pensionable
remuneration, described in annex I to the report of the Commission,4 should
continue to be used in the future;

(c) The current interim adjustment procedure for adjusting pensionable
remuneration for such staff between comprehensive reviews should be continued,
as described in annex I to the report of the Commission;

(d) The monitoring of pensionable remuneration and the United Nations/
United States income replacement ratios should be carried out on the occasion of
periodic comprehensive reviews of the pensionable remuneration and consequent
pensions of such staff, and, between comprehensive reviews, the Commission
should review every two years the factors affecting the comparisons of
pensionable remuneration and income replacement ratios and, if necessary, submit
a report thereon to the General Assembly;

2. Takes note of the decision of the Commission to carry out, in close
cooperation with the Pension Board, on the occasion of future comprehensive
reviews of the pensionable remuneration of staff in the Professional and higher
categories, actuarial analyses of the pension benefits from the United Nations
Joint Staff Pension Fund scheme and those applicable to the staff of the
comparator service, and to report thereon to the General Assembly; 

3. Amends, with effect from 1 January 1997, article 54 (b) of the
Regulations of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, as set out in
annex I to the present resolution, to incorporate the revised scale of
pensionable remuneration for staff in the Professional and higher categories,
using the approved common staff assessment scale;

4. Decides, as regards staff in the General Service and related
categories, that:

(a) The income replacement approach and the methodology related thereto
should continue to be used for the determination of pensionable remuneration of
such staff, including the use of 66.25 per cent of the net pensionable salary
for grossing-up purposes;

(b) The current interim adjustment procedure should continue to be used in
the future; 

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 8

5. Takes note of the decision of the Commission to establish a working
group to review the methodology for identifying and quantifying the
non-pensionable components of the salaries of staff in the General Service and
related categories, as part of the Commission's review of the General Service
salary setting methodologies for Headquarters and other duty stations scheduled
for 1997;

6. Requests the Commission, in full cooperation with the Board, to
undertake in 2002 further comprehensive reviews of the methodologies for the
determination of the pensionable remuneration of staff in the Professional and
higher categories and in the General Service and related categories, and for the
adjustment of pensionable remuneration between comprehensive reviews, and to
submit recommendations thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh
session.

III

PENSION ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM

Recalling section IV of its resolution 46/192, section V of its resolution
47/203, section I of its resolution 48/225 and section III of its resolution
49/224,

1. Takes note of the reviews carried out by the United Nations Joint
Staff Pension Board, as described in section VII of its report,3 on various
aspects of the pension adjustment system;

2. Takes note also of the results of the monitoring of the costs/savings
of recent modifications of the two-track feature of the pension adjustment
system, and of the intention of the Board to continue to monitor those
costs/savings every two years, on the occasion of the actuarial valuations of
the Fund;

3. Approves changes in the pension adjustment system, as set out in
annex II to the present resolution, (a) to include, without creating a precedent
for other situations, with retroactive effect from 1 January 1996, a special
measure for determining local currency track pension amounts for beneficiaries
residing in countries where a new currency unit has been introduced that
significantly strengthens the relationship of the local currency to the United
States dollar, subject to the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 208 of
the report of the Board, and (b) to provide greater specificity in the criteria
set out in paragraph 26 of the pension adjustment system for discontinuing the
local currency track pension amounts when they lead to aberrant results in a
particular country;

4. Takes note of the further review carried out by the International
Civil Service Commission and the Board of the provisions of the special index
for pensioners, which are used to reduce or eliminate the compensation made for
cost-of-living differences in the determination of the initial local currency
track pensions under the two-track feature of the pension adjustment system
whenever beneficiaries have a tax advantage in an otherwise high-cost country of
retirement, and approves the agreed recommendation of the Commission and the

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 9

Board that the current provisions of the special index for pensioners should be
maintained.

IV

ACTIVITIES RELATED TO RESOLVING PROBLEMS CONCERNING THE 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TRANSFER AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE 
FUND AND THE FORMER UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS,
THE FORMER UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC AND THE 

FORMER BYELORUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

Recalling its resolutions 48/225 and 49/224,

Noting that the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund had transferred to
the Social Security Fund of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics the
actuarial value of the pension rights accrued by individual former participants,
as required under the relevant transfer agreements with the former Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, the former Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and
the former Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,

1. Takes note of the legal opinion of the United Nations Legal Counsel
set out in paragraph 124 of the report of the Board to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session;7

2. Notes that the proposed agreement between the Government of the
Russian Federation and the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board, as set out
in annex VI to the report of the Board,3 does not give rise to any rights or
entitlements of any kind for any person under the Regulations of the Fund, and
that the provisions of the proposed agreement are not incorporated in any way in
the Regulations or Administrative Rules of the Fund;

3. Concurs with the proposed agreement, which would represent the first
step in resolving the problems that have arisen with respect to the application
of the transfer agreements;

4. Notes that some Member States have expressed concern that the proposed
agreement only covers certain former Fund participants who are now citizens of
the Russian Federation;

5. Endorses the further steps envisaged in the proposed agreement and in
paragraph 246 of the report of the Board, as endorsed by the Advisory Committee
on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in paragraph 32 of its report,6 and,
towards this end, urges the Governments of the Member States concerned to
undertake direct discussions aimed at resolving the financial issues involved in
respect of those former participants who are their citizens or permanent
residents;

                        

     7 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 9 (A/48/9).

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 10

6. Requests the Board to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-
third session on the developments in respect of the further steps mentioned in
paragraph 5 above and to submit recommendations related thereto to the General
Assembly, as appropriate.

V

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE FUND AND
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF AUDITORS

1. Notes with satisfaction that the report of the Board of Auditors on
the accounts of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund for the biennium
ended 31 December 1995 had revealed no material weakness or errors in the
procedures and operational systems of the Fund, nor any evidence of fraud;

2. Takes note of the measures taken and under consideration by the
secretariat of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund to improve the
procedures for verifying continuing eligibility for benefits from the Fund;

3. Takes note also of the arrangements made for internal audits of the
Fund, to be carried out by the United Nations Office of Internal Oversight
Services;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to make available to the
Fund the United Nations machinery for contracting and procurement, as
recommended by the Board in paragraph 111 of its report.3 

VI

ADMISSION TO MEMBERSHIP OF THE INTERNATIONAL
TRIBUNAL FOR THE LAW OF THE SEA

Noting that the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea meets the
conditions set out in article 3 of the Regulations of the United Nations Joint
Staff Pension Fund for membership in the Fund,

Decides to approve the admission to membership in the United Nations Joint
Staff Pension Fund of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, as from
1 January 1997. 

VII

ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Recalling section VII of its resolution 50/216 and its request, made on the
recommendation of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions, that the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board review the
additional staffing proposals for the Investment Management Service that had
been presented to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session in the budget
proposals for the biennium 1996-1997,

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 11

Having considered the observations of the Board on the staffing of the
Investment Management Service and on other requests for additional resources, as
set out in paragraphs 313 to 328 of its report,3 

Approves the additional staffing and other resources recommended by the
Board, in paragraphs 330 and 332 of its report, involving expenses amounting to
1,187,200 United States dollars net for the biennium 1996-1997, chargeable
directly to the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, for the administration
of the Fund.

VIII

OTHER MATTERS

Recalling its decision 50/485 concerning the provisions of the Regulations
of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund governing the suspension of
benefits in cases of re-employment of retirees in a member organization of the
Fund, and in particular its invitation to the United Nations Joint Staff Pension
Board to examine the possibility of suspending benefits in case of
re-employments for periods of less than six months,

1. Takes note of the review carried out by the Board, as set out in
paragraphs 252 to 261 of its report,3 and of its decision to defer consideration
of a possible amendment of article 40 (a) of the Regulations of the Fund,
pending action by the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the report
it had requested from the Secretary-General on the question of employment of
retirees by the United Nations;

2. Recalls its decision 51/408 of 4 November 1996 by which it decided,
inter alia, to set a ceiling on the amount that retired staff in receipt of a
pension benefit from the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund who are
re-employed by the United Nations may earn per calendar year and limits such
employment to no more than six months per calendar year;

3. Requests the Board to continue its consideration of an amendment of
article 40 (a) of the Regulations of the Fund in respect of re-employment of
retirees in receipt of benefits from the Fund under appointments of more than
two but less than six months, and to submit a recommendation thereon to the
General Assembly at its fifty-third session;

4. Takes note of the review by the Board of the entitlement to survivors'
benefits for spouses and former spouses, and of the intention of the Board to
examine further the various aspects of this issue, including consideration by
the Standing Committee of the Pension Board in 1997 of a limited modification to
the Fund's administrative rule B.4 on confidentiality and of the implications of
introducing a payment facility in respect of court orders on family support, as
well as consideration by the Board at its session in 1998 of the more
far-reaching issue of possible revision of articles 34 and 35 of the Regulations
of the Fund; 

5. Takes note also of the other matters dealt with in section IX of the
report of the Board.

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 12

IX

INVESTMENTS OF THE FUND

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the investments
of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, on the review of the new
custodial arrangements for the Fund's assets implemented in 1994 and on the
review of the arrangements for the provision of institutional advisory
services,6 as well as the observations of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension
Board thereon in its report;3 

2. Takes note also of the observations of the Board of Auditors on the
outstanding tax refunds due to the Fund from some Member States in respect of
direct taxes imposed on the Fund's investment income, as set out in
paragraphs 41 to 43 of its report and reproduced in annex III to the report of
the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board, and the comments of the Pension
Board thereon;

3. Takes note with satisfaction of the increase in the number of Member
States that have granted tax exemption for the investments of the Fund;

4. Reiterates its request to those Member States which do not grant such
exemptions to make all possible efforts to do so as soon as possible;

5. Urges those Member States which have outstanding balances on foreign
tax accounts receivable, as shown in schedule 6 of the financial statements
contained in annex II to the report of the Board, to make all possible efforts
to reimburse the amounts due as quickly as possible.

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 13

ANNEX I

Amendments to the Regulations of the United Nations
Joint Staff Pension Fund

Article 28

Retirement benefit

1. Replace paragraph (d) (i) (B) with the following:

"(d) (i) (B) The maximum benefit payable under the same provisions of
(b) or (c) above to a participant at the level D-2 (top
step for the preceding five years) separating on the same
date as the participant."

2. Replace paragraph (g) (i) (B) with the following:

"(g) (i) (B) The actuarial equivalent of one third of the maximum
benefit that would be payable to a participant retiring
at the normal retirement age, on the same date as the
participant, with a final average remuneration equal to
the pensionable remuneration on that date for the top
step of level P-5 on the scale of pensionable
remuneration appended to article 54."

Article 54

Pensionable remuneration

1. Replace the first sentence of paragraph (b) with the following:

"In the case of participants in the Professional and higher
categories, the scale of pensionable remuneration effective
1 January 1997 shall be as set out in appendix B hereto."

2. Replace appendix B with the following:

/...



A
/
5
1
/
7
4
6

E
n
g
l
i
s
h

P
a
g
e
 
1
4

/
.
.
.



A/51/746
English
Page 15

ANNEX II

Changes in the pension adjustment system

I. Payment of the benefit

1. Replace paragraph 26(a) with the following text:

"26(a) For countries where the application of the local-currency track
would lead to aberrant results, with wide fluctuations depending on the
precise commencement date of the underlying benefit entitlement,
establishment of a local currency base amount in accordance with section C
may be discontinued by the Secretary of the Pension Board. In such cases,
the Secretary shall duly inform the Board or the Standing Committee of this
action, as soon as feasible;"

2. Add a new paragraph 26 (b) reading:

"26(b) Aberrant results in (a) above may be due, inter alia, to:

"(i) Very high inflation rate and an exchange rate which either
remained fixed or whose fluctuation was very limited in
relation to the level of the inflation rate;

"(ii) The 36-month average of exchange rates covered different
currency units or included a currency unit that was no
longer applicable;

"(iii) Substantial depreciation of the local currency, combined
with non-existent, inconsistent or outdated information on
the movement of the country's consumer price index."

3. Renumber paragraph 26(b) as 26(c).

4. Add a new section Q reading:

"Q. Special measure for determination of the local
     currency base amount in certain countries with
     a new currency unit 

"38(a) For countries where a new currency unit was introduced on or
after 1 January 1990 which represented, at the time of its introduction, an
increase in the value of the local currency, in relation to the United
States dollar, of at least 100 per cent, the local currency base amount
under section C, paragraph 5 (b) (iii) above, shall be determined in the
following manner:

"(i) For beneficiaries separating before or during the month of
introduction of the new currency unit: by applying to the
dollar base amount, as adjusted under section H above to
the date of introduction of the new local currency unit,

/...



A/51/746
English
Page 16

the United Nations operational exchange rate in effect as
of such date;

"(ii) For beneficiaries separating after the end of the month of
introduction of the new currency unit: by applying to the
dollar base amount the average of the United Nations
operational exchange rates for the new local currency unit
over the period from the effective month of introduction
of the new currency unit to the month of separation, up to
a maximum of thirty-six months;

"(b) This special measure shall apply to all beneficiaries who have
provided, or will provide in future, proof of residence in a country which
meets the criteria in subparagraph (a) above;

"(c) (i) The local currency base amount determined in accordance
with (a) (i) above shall be adjusted by the consumer price
index movement, in accordance with section H above, as
from the date of introduction of the new currency unit;

"(ii) The local currency base amount determined in accordance
with (a) (ii) above shall be adjusted by the consumer
price index movement, in accordance with section H above;

"(d) The local currency amount calculated under this special measure
will be paid only with effect from the first day of the quarter following
submission of proof of residence, or in cases where proof of residence had
been submitted earlier, as from the first day of the quarter following the
date of introduction of the new local currency unit, with retroactive
effect only as from 1 January 1996;

"(e) Should the new local currency unit depreciate against the United
States dollar by 50 per cent or more from its value on the date of
introduction, beneficiaries covered by the special measure may exercise an
option, within two years as from the date of implementation of the special
measure, 1 January 1997, to withdraw their proof of residence and to have
their pension benefits paid thereafter solely on the United States dollar
track. Such reversion to the dollar track alone would be effective as from
the first quarter following receipt by the Fund secretariat of the
beneficiary's withdrawal of proof of residence."

-----


