






































 A/53/585 


98-36518 (E) 271198

United Nations A/53/585

General Assembly Distr.: General
20 November 1998

Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 72

Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Motaz M. Zahran (Egypt)

I. Introduction

1. The item entitled:

“Review of the implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special
Session of the General Assembly:

“(a) United Nations Disarmament Information Programme;

“(b) United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services;

“(c) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the
Pacific;

“(d) Regional confidence-building measures: activities of the United Nations Standing
Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa;

“(e) Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons”

was included in the provisional agenda of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly in
accordance with Assembly resolutions 51/46 F of 10 December 1996 and 52/39 A to D of
9 December 1997.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 15 September 1998, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda and to
allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 17 September 1998, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to it, namely,
items 63 to 79, which was held at the 3rd to 12th meetings, from 12 to 16 and from 19 to 21
October (see A/C.1/53/PV.3–12). Thematic discussions on the items were held, and draft

<<ODS JOB NO>>N9836518E<<ODS JOB NO>> <<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/53/585<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>> <<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>> 



A/53/585

2

resolutions were introduced and considered, at the 14th to 21st meetings, on 23 and from 27
to 30 October and on 2 November (see A/C.1/53/PV.14–21). Action on all draft resolutions
was taken at the 22nd to 31st meetings, from 3 to 6 and on 9, 10, 12 and 13 November (see
A/C.1/53/PV.22–31).

4. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Disarmament Information
Programme (A/53/161 and Corr.1 and Add.1);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace
and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific (A/53/323);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace
and Disarmament in Africa (A/53/348);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the activities of the United Nations Standing
Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa (A/53/369);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations disarmament fellowship,
training and advisory services (A/53/426);

(f) Letter dated 25 February 1998 from the Permanent Representative of Ecuador
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/53/73–S/1998/163 and Corr.1);

(g) Letter dated 14 August 1998 from the Permanent Mission of Gabon to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/53/258–S/1998/763);

(h) Letter dated 3 November 1998 from the Permanent Representative of Cameroon
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/53/638–S/1998/1035).

II. Consideration of proposals

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.4/Rev.1

5. At the 26th meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Cameroon, on behalf of
Burundi, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali and Togo and the States members
of the Economic Community of Central African States introduced a draft resolution entitled
“Regional confidence-building measures: activities of the United Nations Standing Advisory
Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa” (A/C.1/53/L.4/Rev.1).

6. The Committee had before it a statement of the programme budget implications of the
draft resolution, submitted by the Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153 of the rules
of procedure of the General Assembly (A/C.1/53/L.63).

7. At its 28th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/53/L.4/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution A).

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.5 and Rev.1

8. At the 18th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Nepal, on behalf of Australia,
Indonesia, Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka,
Thailand and Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled: United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific” (A/C.1/53/L.5). Subsequently, Brunei



A/53/585

3

Darussalam, Fiji, Kazakhstan, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, New Zealand, the
Philippines, the Republic of Korea and Uzbekistan joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

9. The Committee had before it amendments (A/C.1/53/L.46) to draft resolution
A/C.1/53/L.5, submitted by the representative of Bangladesh, by which:

(a) The seventh preambular paragraph would be deleted;

(b) A new operative paragraph would be inserted between paragraphs 2 and 3,
reading:

“Welcomes the idea of the creation of an educational and training programme for
peace and disarmament in Asia and the Pacific for young people with different
backgrounds, to be financed from voluntary contributions”;

(c) Operative paragraph 5 would be replaced by the following text:

“Requests the Secretary-General to move the operations of the Regional Centre,
including the Office of the Director, to the region and to provide all necessary support,
within existing resources, to the Regional Centre in carrying out its programme of
activities”.

10. At the 27th meeting, on 10 November, the representative of Nepal, on behalf of the
sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.5, introduced a revised draft resolution entitled
“United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific”
(A/C.1/53/L.5/Rev.1), which included the following changes:

(a) In the seventh preambular paragraph, the words “Noting the idea” had been
replaced by the words “Also welcoming the idea”;

(b) In the eighth preambular paragraph, the words “Recognizing the expansion of
the role” had been replaced by the words “Noting the important role”;

(c) In operative paragraph 5, the phrase “taking note of paragraph 6 of General
Assembly resolution 49/76 D of 15 December 1994” had been inserted between the words
“Requests the Secretary-General” and the words “to provide all necessary support”.

11. At the same meeting, the representative of Bangladesh withdrew his amendments to
draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.5.

12. Also at its 27th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.5/Rev.1
without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution B).

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.8

13. At the 16th meeting, on 27 October, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the
Group of African States, introduced a draft resolution entitled “United Nations Regional
Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa” (A/C.1/53/L.8).

14. At its 24th meeting, on 5 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/53/L.8 without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution C).

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.14

15. At the 18th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of India, on behalf of
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Egypt,



A/53/585

Subsequently the delegations of Benin and Sri Lanka indicated that they had intended to vote in1

favour of the paragraph.

4

India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kenya, the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, the
Sudan and Viet Nam, subsequently joined by the Congo, Fiji, and Namibia, introduced a draft
resolution entitled “Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons”
(A/C.1/53/L.14).

16. At its 22nd meeting, on 3 November, the Committee adopted the eighth preambular
paragraph of draft resolution A/C.1/52/L.14 by a recorded vote of 72 to 38, with 18
abstentions. The voting was as follows:1

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Zambia.

Against:
Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Marshall Islands, Monaco, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining:
Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Chile, Cyprus, Ecuador, Georgia, Israel,
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Malta, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Russian Federation, San Marino, Ukraine.

17. Also at its 22nd meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.14, as
a whole, by a recorded vote of 82 to 37, with 20 abstentions (see para. 24, draft resolution
D). The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Chile, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda,



A/53/585

5

United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining:
Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, Cyprus, Ecuador, Georgia, Israel,
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Malta, Marshall Islands, Republic of Korea, Republic
of Moldova, Russian Federation, San Marino, Turkmenistan, Ukraine.

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.18

18. At the 19th meeting, on 30 October, the representative of Mexico, on behalf of Brazil,
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Indonesia, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Monaco, Nicaragua,
Peru and South Africa introduced a draft resolution entitled “United Nations Disarmament
Information Programme” (A/C.1/53/L.18). Subsequently, Argentina, Ecuador, Fiji, Myanmar
and the Philippines joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

19. At its 24th meeting, on 5 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/53/L.18 without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution E).

F. Draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.25

20. At the 21st meeting, on 2 November, the representative of South Africa, on behalf of
the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, subsequently joined by Fiji, introduced a draft resolution entitled “United Nations
regional centres for peace and disarmament” (A/C.1/53/L.25).

21. At the 24th meeting, on 5 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/53/L.25 without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution F).

G. Draft resolution A/C.1/53/L.29

22. At the 16th meeting, on 27 October, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of Algeria,
Benin, Brazil, China, Cuba, Egypt, Germany, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Japan,
Myanmar, Nicaragua, the Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan and South Africa introduced a draft
resolution entitled “United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services”
(A/C.1/53/L.29). Subsequently, Argentina, Ecuador, Greece, Mali, New Zealand, Romania,
Togo and the United States of America joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

 
23. At its 24th meeting, on 5 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/53/L.29 without a vote (see para. 24, draft resolution G).



A/53/585

A/50/474, annex I.2

A/53/258–S/1998/763, annex II, appendix I.3

A/52/871–S/1998/318.4

6

III. Recommendations of the First Committee

24. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following
draft resolutions:

Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly

A

Regional confidence-building measures: activities of the United Nations
Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security in accordance with the
Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling its resolutions 43/78 H and 43/85 of 7 December 1988, 44/21 of 15
November 1989, 45/58 M of 4 December 1990, 46/37 B of 6 December 1991, 47/53 F of
15 December 1992, 48/76 A of 16 December 1993, 49/76 C of 15 December 1994, 50/71 B
of 12 December 1995, 51/46 C of 10 December 1996 and 52/39 B of 9 December 1997,

Considering the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building measures taken
at the initiative and with the participation of all States concerned, and taking into account the
specific characteristics of each region, since such measures can contribute to regional stability
and to international security,

Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional disarmament,
can be devoted to economic and social development and to the protection of the environment
for the benefit of all peoples, in particular those of the developing countries,

Recalling the guidelines for general and complete disarmament adopted at its tenth
special session, the first special session devoted to disarmament,

Convinced also that development can be achieved only in a climate of peace, security
and mutual confidence both within and among States,

Bearing in mind the establishment by the Secretary-General on 28 May 1992 of the
United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the
purpose of which is to encourage arms limitation, disarmament, non-proliferation and
development in the subregion,

Recalling the Brazzaville Declaration on Cooperation for Peace and Security in Central
Africa and the Bata Declaration for the Promotion of Lasting Democracy, Peace and2

Development in Central Africa,3

Bearing in mind resolutions 1196 (1998) and 1197 (1998), adopted by the Security
Council on 16 and 18 September 1998 respectively, following its consideration of the report
of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and
sustainable development in Africa,4



A/53/585

A/53/369.5

7

Emphasizing the need to strengthen the capacity for conflict prevention and
peacekeeping in Africa,

Recalling the decision of the fourth meeting of the Standing Advisory Committee in
favour of establishing, under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights, a subregional centre for human rights and democracy in Central Africa,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on regional confidence-building
measures, which deals with the activities of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee5

on Security Questions in Central Africa in the period since the adoption by the General
Assembly of resolution 52/39 B of 9 December 1997;

2. Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building measures
at regional and subregional levels in order to ease tensions and conflicts in the subregion and
to further peace, stability and sustainable development in Central Africa;

3. Also reaffirms its support for the programme of work of the Standing Advisory
Committee adopted at the organizational meeting of the Committee, held at Yaoundé in July
1992;

4. Notes with satisfaction the progress made by the countries members of the
Standing Advisory Committee in implementing the programme of activities for the period
1998–1999, in particular by:

(a) Holding a joint meeting of ministers of defence and of the interior at Libreville
from 28 to 30 April 1998 on questions of security in Central Africa;

(b) Organizing the Subregional Conference on Democratic Institutions and Peace
in Central Africa, at Bata, Equatorial Guinea, from 18 to 21 May 1998;

(c) Holding a Seminar on the Training of Trainers in Practical Disarmament Measures
for the Consolidation of Peace for Senior Military and Civilian Officials at Yaoundé, from
27 to 31 July 1998;

5. Emphasizes the importance of providing to the countries members of the Standing
Advisory Committee the essential support they need to carry out the full programme of
activities which they adopted at the ninth and tenth ministerial meetings, in particular the
organization of joint military exercises to simulate peacekeeping operations;

6. Welcomes the decision of the countries members of the Standing Advisory
Committee to convene as soon as possible a summit meeting of heads of State and Government
with a view to establishing a higher council for the promotion of peace, the prevention,
management and settlement of political crises and armed conflicts in Central Africa and a
subregional parliament in Central Africa;

7. Welcomes with satisfaction the establishment of an early warning mechanism in
Central Africa which will serve, on the one hand, as an instrument for analysing and
monitoring political situations in the countries members of the Standing Advisory Committee
with a view to preventing the outbreak of future armed conflicts and, on the other hand, as
a technical body through which the member countries will carry out the work programme of
the Committee, adopted at its organizational meeting held at Yaoundé in 1992;

8. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights to lend their support to the establishment of a subregional centre for human
rights and democracy in Central Africa;



A/53/585

A/53/323.6

8

9. Also requests the Secretary-General, pursuant to Security Council resolution 1197
(1998), to provide the necessary support to the countries members of the Standing Advisory
Committee in making operational the early warning mechanism that they have just established;

10. Thanks the Secretary-General for having established the Trust Fund for the United
Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa;

11. Appeals to Member States and to governmental and non-governmental
organizations to make additional voluntary contributions to the Trust Fund for the
implementation of the programme of work of the Standing Advisory Committee, in particular
the activities referred to in paragraphs 5 and 7 above;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide assistance to the States
members of the Standing Advisory Committee to ensure that they are able to carry on with
their efforts;

13. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-
fourth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;

14. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fourth session the item
entitled “Regional confidence-building measures: activities of the United Nations Standing
Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa”.

B

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the
Pacific

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 42/39 D of 30 November 1987 and 44/117 F of 15 December
1989, by which it established the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament
in Asia and renamed it the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Asia and the Pacific, with headquarters at Kathmandu and with the mandate of providing, on
request, substantive support for the initiatives and other activities mutually agreed upon by
the Member States of the Asia-Pacific region for the implementation of measures for peace
and disarmament, through appropriate utilization of available resources,

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General, in which he expresses his belief that6

the mandate of the Regional Centre remains valid and that the Centre could be a useful
instrument for fostering a climate of cooperation in the post-cold-war era,

Noting that trends in the post-cold-war era have emphasized the function of the Regional
Centre in assisting Member States as they deal with new security concerns and disarmament
issues emerging in the region,

Commending the useful activities carried out by the Regional Centre in encouraging
regional and subregional dialogue for the enhancement of openness, transparency and
confidence-building, as well as the promotion of disarmament and security through the
organization of regional meetings, which has come to be widely known within the Asia-Pacific
region as the “Kathmandu process”,

Expressing its appreciation to the Regional Centre for its organization of substantive
regional meetings at Kathmandu and at Jakarta in 1998,



A/53/585

9

Welcoming the positive outcome of the tenth anniversary of the Kathmandu process,

Also welcoming the idea of the possible creation of an educational and training
programme for peace and disarmament in Asia and the Pacific for young people with different
backgrounds, to be financed from voluntary contributions,

Noting the important role of the Regional Centre in assisting region-specific initiatives
of Member States, including its assistance to the work related to the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia,

Appreciating highly the important role that Nepal has played as the host nation of the
headquarters of the Regional Centre,

1. Reaffirms its strong support for the continuing operation and further strengthening
of the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific;

2. Underscores the importance of the Kathmandu process as a powerful vehicle for
the development of the practice of region-wide security and disarmament dialogue;

3. Expresses its appreciation for the continuing political support and financial
contributions to the Regional Centre, which are essential for its continued operation;

4. Appeals to Member States, in particular those within the Asia-Pacific region, as
well as to international governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations,
to make voluntary contributions, the only resources of the Regional Centre, so as to strengthen
the programme of activities of the Regional Centre and its implementation;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, taking note of paragraph 6 of General Assembly
resolution 49/76 D of 15 December 1994, to provide all necessary support, within existing
resources, to the Regional Centre in carrying out its programme of activities;

6. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-
fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fourth session the item
entitled “United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific”.

C

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa

The General Assembly,

Mindful of the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United
Nations stipulating that a function of the General Assembly is to consider the general
principles of cooperation in the maintenance of international peace and security, including
the principles governing disarmament and arms limitation,

Recalling its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41/60 D of 3 December 1986,
42/39 J of 30 November 1987 and 43/76 D of 7 December 1988 on the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, and its resolutions 46/36 F of 6
December 1991 and 47/52 G of 9 December 1992 on regional disarmament, including
confidence-building measures,

Recalling also its resolutions 48/76 E of 16 December 1993, 49/76 D of 15 December
1994, 50/71 C of 12 December 1995, 51/46 E of 10 December 1996 and 52/220 of 22
December 1997,

Bearing in mind the financial difficulties that the Regional Centre has in implementing
its programmes of activities,



A/53/585

A/52/871–S/1998/318.7

See A/53/348.8

A/51/218, annex.9

10

Aware of the widespread support for the revitalization of the Regional Centre and the
important role that the Centre can play in the present context in promoting confidence-building
measures at the regional level, thereby promoting progress in the area of sustainable
development,

Taking into account the report of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and
the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa,7

1. Notes with satisfaction the activities carried out by the Regional Centre in support
of efforts at promoting understanding and cooperation among African countries in the areas
of peace, disarmament, security and development;8

2. Reaffirms that there is need to revitalize the Regional Centre and provide it with
resources to enable it to strengthen its activities and programmes, and welcomes the steps
taken to this end by the Secretary-General, including the appointment of a Director of the
Regional Centre;

3. Appeals urgently to Member States, mainly to African States, as well as to
international governmental organizations and foundations to make voluntary contributions
in order to revitalize the Regional Centre, strengthen its programmes of activities and facilitate
the implementation of such programmes;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide all necessary support,
within existing resources, to the Regional Centre for better achievements and results;

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to assist the new Director of the Regional
Centre in his task of stabilizing the financial situation and revitalizing the activities of the
Regional Centre;

6. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
fifty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fourth session the item
entitled “United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa”.

D

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly,

Convinced that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious threat to the survival
of mankind,

Bearing in mind the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 8 July 1996
on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons,9

Convinced that a multilateral, universal and binding agreement prohibiting the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons would contribute to the elimination of the nuclear threat and
to the climate for negotiations leading to the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons, thereby
strengthening international peace and security,

Conscious that some steps taken by the Russian Federation and the United States of
America towards a reduction of their nuclear weapons and the improvement in the



A/53/585

Resolution S–10/2.10

See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st11

meeting, paras. 110 and 111.

11

international climate can contribute towards the goal of the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons,

Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, it is stated that all States should actively participate in efforts to bring10

about conditions in international relations among States in which a code of peaceful conduct
of nations in international affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the Charter of the
United Nations and a crime against humanity, as declared in its resolutions 1653 (XVI) of
24 November 1961, 33/71 B of 14 December 1978, 34/83 G of 11 December 1979, 35/152 D
of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 I of 9 December 1981,

Determined to achieve a universal nuclear weapons convention prohibiting the
development, production, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons, leading to their ultimate
destruction,

Stressing that an international convention on the prohibition of the use of nuclear
weapons would be an important step in a phased programme towards the complete elimination
of nuclear weapons, with a specified framework of time,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its 1998 session, was
unable to undertake negotiations on this subject as called for in General Assembly resolution
52/39 C of 9 December 1997,

1. Reiterates its request to the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiations, in order to reach agreement on an international convention prohibiting the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons under any circumstances;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General Assembly on
the results of those negotiations.

E

United Nations Disarmament Information Programme

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision taken in 1982 at its twelfth special session, the second special
session devoted to disarmament, by which the World Disarmament Campaign was launched,11

Bearing in mind its various resolutions on the subject, including resolution 47/53 D
of 9 December 1992, in which it decided, inter alia, that the World Disarmament Campaign
should be known thereafter as the “United Nations Disarmament Information Programme”
and the World Disarmament Campaign Voluntary Trust Fund as the “Voluntary Trust Fund
for the United Nations Disarmament Information Programme”,

Recalling its resolution 51/46 A of 10 December 1996,

Welcoming the re-establishment of the Department for Disarmament Affairs, and
expressing the hope that this action will lead to a reinvigoration of the United Nations
information and outreach activities in the field of disarmament,



A/53/585

A/53/161 and Corr.1 and Add.1.12

12

Having examined the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations
Disarmament Information Programme, and welcoming the greater emphasis on products12

for the general public and the expansion of electronic means to disseminate information to
major constituents,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the United
Nations Disarmament Information Programme;12

2. Commends the Secretary-General for his efforts to make effective use of the
limited resources available to him in disseminating as widely as possible information on arms
limitation and disarmament to Governments, the media, non-governmental organizations,
educational communities and research institutes, and in carrying out a seminar and conference
programme;

3. Stresses the importance of the Programme, as a significant instrument in enabling
all Member States to participate fully in the deliberations and negotiations on disarmament
in the various United Nations bodies, and in assisting them in complying with treaties, as
required, and in contributing to agreed mechanisms for transparency;

4. Notes with appreciation the contributions to the efforts of the Programme by the
Department of Public Information of the Secretariat and the information centres;

5. Recommends that the Programme focus its efforts:

(a) To inform, to educate and to generate public understanding of the importance of
multilateral action and support for it, including action by the United Nations and the
Conference on Disarmament, in the field of arms limitations and disarmament, in a factual,
balanced and objective manner, particularly through the publication in all official languages
of The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook and updates of the Status of Multilateral Arms
Regulation and Disarmament Agreements, and ad hoc publications, and through the Home
Page on the Internet of the Department for Disarmament Affairs and other outreach activities,
such as the film entitled Messenger of Peace;

(b) To facilitate unimpeded access to and an exchange of information on ideas between
the public sector and public interest groups and organizations, and to provide an independent
source of balanced and factual information that takes into account a range of views to help
further an informed debate on arms limitation, disarmament and security;

(c) To organize meetings to facilitate exchange of views and information between
governmental and non-governmental sectors and between governmental and other experts
in order to facilitate the search for common ground;

6. Emphasizes the importance of contributions to the Voluntary Trust Fund for the
United Nations Disarmament Information Programme to sustain a strong outreach programme,
and invites all Member States to make contributions to the Fund;

7. Commends the Secretary-General for supporting the efforts of universities, other
academic institutions and non-governmental organizations active in the educational field in
widening the worldwide availability of disarmament education, and invites him to continue
to support and cooperate with educational institutions and non-governmental organizations
engaged in such efforts, without cost to the regular budget of the United Nations;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth
session a report covering both the implementation of the activities of the Programme by the



A/53/585

See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st13

meeting.
A/53/667–S/1998/1071, annex I.14

13

United Nations system during the previous two years and the activities of the Programme
contemplated by the system for the following two years;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fifth session the item
entitled “United Nations Disarmament Information Programme”.

F

United Nations regional centres for peace and disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 52/220 of 22 December 1997 as it relates to the maintenance
and revitalization of the three United Nations regional centres for peace and disarmament,
and welcomes the intention of the Secretary-General to appoint directors for the Centre for
Africa and the Centre for Latin America and the Caribbean,

Reaffirming its decision, taken in 1982 at its twelfth special session, to establish the
United Nations Disarmament Information Programme, the purpose of which is to inform,
educate and generate public understanding and support for the objectives of the United
Nations in the field of arms control and disarmament,13

Bearing in mind its resolutions 40/151 G of 16 December 1985, 41/60 J of 3 December
1986, 42/39 D of 30 November 1987 and 44/117 F of 15 December 1989 on the regional
centres for peace and disarmament in Nepal, Peru and Togo,

Recognizing that the changes that have taken place in the world have created new
opportunities as well as posed new challenges for the pursuit of disarmament and, in this
regard, bearing in mind that the regional centres for peace and disarmament can contribute
substantially to the understanding and cooperation among the States in each particular region
in the areas of peace, disarmament and development,

Noting that in paragraph 146 of the Final Document of the Twelfth Conference of Heads
of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Durban, South Africa from 29
August to 3 September 1998, the Heads of State or Government welcomed the decision
adopted by the General Assembly on maintaining and revitalizing the three regional centres
for peace and disarmament in Nepal, Peru and Togo,14

1. Reiterates the importance of the United Nations activities at the regional level
to increase the stability and security of its Member States, which could be promoted in a
substantive manner by the maintenance and revitalization of the three regional centres for
peace and disarmament;

2. Reaffirms that, in order to achieve positive results, it is useful for the three
regional centres to carry out dissemination and educational programmes that promote regional
peace and security aimed at changing basic attitudes with respect to peace and security and
disarmament so as to support the achievement of the principles and purposes of the United
Nations;

3. Appeals to Member States in each region and those that are able to do so, as well
as to international governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations, to



A/53/585

A/53/426.15

Resolution S–10/2.16

Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session, Annexes, agenda items 9–13,17

document A/S–12/32.
A/33/305.18

14

make voluntary contributions to the regional centres in their respective regions to strengthen
their programmes of activities and implementation;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary support, within existing
resources, to the regional centres in carrying out their programmes of activities;

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-
fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fourth session the item
entitled “United Nations regional centres for peace and disarmament”.

G

United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations
disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services programme,15

Recalling its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, the first special session devoted to disarmament,16

to establish a programme of fellowships on disarmament, as well as its decisions contained
in annex IV to the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General
Assembly, the second special session devoted to disarmament, in which it decided, inter17

alia, to continue the programme,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme has already trained an appreciable number
of public officials selected from geographical regions represented in the United Nations
system, most of whom are now in positions of responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs
in their respective countries or Governments,

Recalling all the annual resolutions on the matter since the thirty-seventh session of
the General Assembly, in 1982, including resolution 50/71 A of 12 December 1995,

Noting with satisfaction that the programme is observing in 1998 its twentieth
anniversary and, as designed, continues to enable an increased number of public officials,
in particular from the developing countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of
disarmament,

Believing that the forms of assistance available to Member States, in particular to
developing countries, under the programme will enhance the capabilities of their officials
to follow ongoing deliberations and negotiations on disarmament, both bilateral and
multilateral,

1. Reaffirms its decision contained in annex IV to the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly and the report of the Secretary-General17 18

approved by the Assembly in its resolution 33/71 E of 14 December 1978;



A/53/585

15

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Germany and Japan for inviting
the 1997 and 1998 fellows to study selected activities in the field of disarmament, thereby
contributing to the fulfilment of the overall objectives of the programme;

3. Commends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the programme
has continued to be carried out;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to implement annually the Geneva-
based programme within existing resources and to report thereon to the General Assembly
at its fifty-fifth session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fifth session the item
entitled “United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services”.


