





































United Nations A/55/L.39

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
24 November 2000

Original: English

00-76123 (E)    241100
`````````

Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 38
Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic

Angola, Argentina, Benin, Brazil, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana,
Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Namibia, Nigeria, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, South Africa, Togo and Uruguay: draft resolution

Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986, in which it solemnly
declared the Atlantic Ocean, in the region between Africa and South America, a
zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic,

Recalling also its subsequent resolutions on the matter, including resolution
45/36 of 27 November 1990, in which it reaffirmed the determination of the States
of the zone to enhance and accelerate their cooperation in the political, economic,
scientific, cultural and other spheres,

Reaffirming that the questions of peace and security and those of development
are interrelated and inseparable and that cooperation for peace and development
among States of the region will promote the objectives of the zone of peace and
cooperation of the South Atlantic,

Aware of the importance that the States of the zone attach to the protection of
the environment of the region, and recognizing the threat that pollution from any
source poses to the marine and coastal environment, its ecological balance and its
resources,

1. Reaffirms the importance of the purposes and objectives of the zone of
peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic as a basis for the promotion of
cooperation among the countries of the region;

2. Calls upon all States to cooperate in the promotion of the objectives
established in the declaration of the zone of peace and cooperation of the South
Atlantic and to refrain from any action inconsistent with those objectives and with
the Charter of the United Nations and relevant resolutions of the Organization, in



2

A/55/L.39

particular actions that may create or aggravate situations of tension and potential
conflict in the region;

3. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General,1 submitted in
accordance with its resolution 54/35 of 24 November 1999;

4. Recalls the agreement reached at the third meeting of the States members
of the zone, held in Brasilia in 1994, to encourage democracy and political pluralism
and, in accordance with the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted
by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,2 to promote and
defend all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to cooperate towards the
achievement of these goals;

5. Welcomes with satisfaction the holding of the fifth meeting of the States
members of the zone in Buenos Aires, on 21 and 22 October 1998 and takes note of
the Final Declaration and Plan of Action adopted at the meeting;3

6. Welcomes the progress towards the full entry into force of the Treaty for
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of
Tlatelolco)4 and the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty (Treaty of
Pelindaba);5

7. Also welcomes the entry into force of the Inter-American Convention
against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Ammunition,
Explosives and Other Related Materials,6 adopted in November 1997, and the
adoption of the Inter-American Convention on Transparency in Conventional
Weapons Acquisitions by the Organization of American States in June 1999;

8. Further welcomes the decision on the proliferation, circulation and illicit
trafficking of small arms and light weapons7 taken by the Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity at its thirty-fifth ordinary session,
held in Algiers in July 1999 as well as the decisions on the prevention and
combating of illicit trafficking in small arms and related crimes8 taken by the
Council of Ministers at the nineteenth Summit of Heads of State and Government of
the Southern African Development Community, held in Maputo in August 1999, and
the initiatives taken by States members of the Economic Community of West
African States to conclude their agreement on a moratorium on the importing,
exporting and manufacture of light weapons;

9. Underlines that sustainable peace and security in Sierra Leone can only
be achieved through the fulfilment of the broad objectives of the Peace Agreement
signed at Lomé on 7 July 1999,9 including full disarmament, demobilization and
reintegration, the legitimate exploitation of natural resources of Sierra Leone for the
benefit of its people, full respect for the human rights of all, national reconciliation,
effective action on the issues of impunity and accountability, the full extension of

__________________
1 A/55/476.
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 A/53/650, annex.
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.
5 See A/50/426, annex.
6 A/53/78, annex.
7 A/54/424, annex II, decision AHG/Dec.137 (XXXV).
8 A/54/488-S/1999/1082, annex.
9 S/1999/777, annex.



3

A/55/L.39

the authority of the State of Sierra Leone, and a free and inclusive democratic
process leading to elections;

10. Reaffirms the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and of all States in the region and calls on
all the parties to the conflict to cease the hostilities and to fulfil their obligations
under the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement;

11. Reaffirms the importance for Member States to contribute by all means at
their disposal to an effective and lasting peace in Angola, and in that context
reiterates that the primary cause of the present situation in Angola is the failure of
the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, under the leadership of
Jonas Savimbi, to comply with its obligations under the Peace Accords10 the Lusaka
Protocol,11 and relevant Security Council resolutions;

12. Views with concern the humanitarian effects on the civilian population of
the present situation in Angola, commends in this regard the efforts of Member
States, including the Government of Angola, and humanitarian organizations in
rendering humanitarian assistance to Angola, and urges them to continue to provide
and to increase such assistance;

13. Welcomes the return to constitutional and democratic order in Guinea-
Bissau following the holding of free and fair presidential and legislative elections on
16 January 2000, and calls upon the international community and the Government of
Guinea-Bissau to support the economic reconstruction of Guinea-Bissau and
promote the consolidation of democracy there;

14. Affirms the importance of the South Atlantic to global maritime and
commercial transactions and its determination to preserve the region for all peaceful
purposes and activities protected by international law, in particular the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea;12

15. Calls upon Member States to continue their efforts towards the
achievement of appropriate regulation of maritime transport of radioactive and toxic
wastes, taking into account the interests of coastal States and in accordance with the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the regulations of the
International Maritime Organization and the International Atomic Energy Agency;

16. Views with concern the increase in drug trafficking and related crimes,
including drug abuse, and calls upon the international community and the States
members of the zone to promote regional and international cooperation to combat all
aspects of the problem of drugs and related offences;

17. Recognizes, in the light of the number, magnitude and complexity of
natural disasters and other emergencies, the need to strengthen the coordination of
humanitarian assistance by States members of the zone, so as to ensure a timely and
effective response;

18. Welcomes the offer by Benin to host the sixth meeting of the States
members of the zone;

__________________
10 S/22609.
11 S/1994/1441.
12 Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, vol. XVII

(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document A/CONF.62/122.



4

A/55/L.39

19. Requests the relevant organizations, organs and bodies of the United
Nations system to render all appropriate assistance that States members of the zone
may seek in their joint efforts to implement the declaration of the zone of peace and
cooperation of the South Atlantic;

20. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the implementation of resolution
41/11 and subsequent resolutions on the matter under review and to submit a report
to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session, taking into account, inter alia, the
views expressed by Member States;

21. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-sixth session the
item entitled “Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic”.


