





































United Nations A/55/575

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
20 October 2000

Original: English

00-70595 (E)    021100
`````````

Fifty-fifth session
Agenda items 89 and 18

Economic and other activities which affect the interests of
the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Shingo Miyamoto (Japan)

I. Introduction

1. At its 9th plenary meeting, on 11 September 2000, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-fifth session the item entitled “Economic and other activities which affect
the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories” and to allocate it
to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee). The
Assembly also referred to the Fourth Committee, under the item entitled
“Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples”, chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples.1

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 September 2000, the Fourth Committee decided to
hold a general debate covering agenda items 18, 88, 89, 90 and 12, and 91. The
general debate on the items was held at the 3rd to 7th meetings, from 25 to 29
September (see A/C.4/55/SR.3-7). The Committee took action on items 89 and 18 at
its 8th meeting, on 3 October (see A/C.4/55/SR.8).

3. For its consideration of the items, the Committee had before it the relevant
chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the

__________________
1 To be issued in Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 23

(A/55/23).



2

A/55/575

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples (A/55/23 (Part II), chap. V and A/55/23 (Part III), chap.
XIII).1

4. Also at its 2nd meeting, the Committee decided, without objection and in
accordance with established practice, to consider, in conjunction with agenda item
89, chapter VI of the report of the Special Committee, relating to military activities
and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration (see
A/55/23 (Part II)).

5. At the 3rd meeting, on 25 September, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during
2000. He also drew attention to chapter V of the report of that Committee, as well as
its relevant working papers (A/AC.109/2000/13, 14, 17 and Corr.1 and 18). The
Rapporteur also gave an account of the Special Committee’s consideration, pursuant
to paragraph 8 of General Assembly decision 54/421 of 6 December 1999, of the
question of military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories
under their administration and drew attention to chapter VI of the report of the
Special Committee.

II. Consideration of proposals

A. Draft resolution contained in document A/55/23 (Part III),
chapter XIII, section B

6. At the 8th meeting, on 3 October, the representative of the United States of
America proposed an amendment to draft resolution II, entitled “Economic and
other activities which affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing
Territories”, contained in document A/55/23 (Part III), chapter XIII, section B, by
which operative paragraph 7 would be deleted, and requested a separate vote on the
proposal.

7. At the same meeting, the Committee rejected the proposal to delete operative
paragraph 7 of the draft resolution by a recorded vote of 42 to 3, with 56
abstentions. The voting was as follows:2

In favour:
Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

Against:
Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Chile, China, Côte d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Lao People’s

__________________
2 Subsequently, the delegations of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mozambique and Pakistan

indicated that, had they been present, they would have voted against; the delegation of Qatar
indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted in favour; and the delegation of Togo
indicated that, had it been present, it would have abstained.



3

A/55/575

Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Nauru, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

Abstaining:
Andorra, Angola, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Bulgaria,
Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malta, Monaco,
Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman,
Panama, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Singapore,
Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine.

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution contained in
document A/55/23 (Part III), chapter XIII, section B, as a whole, by a recorded vote
of 110 to 2, with 2 abstentions (see para. 11). The voting was as follows:3

In favour:
Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Monaco,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining:
France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

B. Draft decision contained in document A/55/23 (Part III),
chapter XIII, section I

9. At its 8th meeting, on 3 October, the Committee adopted the draft decision
entitled “Military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories

__________________
3 Subsequently, the delegations of Kuwait, Pakistan, Qatar and the Republic of Korea indicated

that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour.



4

A/55/575

under their administration”, contained in document A/55/23 (Part III), chapter XIII,
section I, by a recorded vote of 71 to 41 (see para. 12). The voting was as follows:4

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Nigeria, Oman, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, South Africa, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining:
None.

10. After the vote, statements in explanation of vote were made by the
representatives of France (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are members of the European Union) and the United States of America (see
A/C.4/55/SR.8).

III. Recommendations of the Special Political and
Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)

11. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution:

Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled “Economic and other activities which
affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”,

__________________
4 Subsequently, the delegations of Mozambique, Pakistan, Qatar and Togo indicated that, had they

been present, they would have voted in favour; and the delegation of the Republic of Korea
indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted against.



5

A/55/575

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item,5

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, as well as all other
relevant resolutions, including, in particular, resolution 46/181 of 19 December
1991,

Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their
administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those Territories
against abuses,

Reaffirming also that any economic or other activity that has a negative impact
on the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and on the
exercise of their right to self-determination in conformity with the Charter of the
United Nations and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) is contrary to the
purposes and principles of the Charter,

Reaffirming further that the natural resources are the heritage of the peoples of
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, including the indigenous populations,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location, size and
economic conditions of each Territory, and bearing in mind the need to promote the
economic stability, diversification and strengthening of the economy of each
Territory,

Conscious of the particular vulnerability of the small Territories to natural
disasters and environmental degradation,

Conscious also that foreign economic investment, when done in collaboration
with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in accordance with their
wishes, could make a valid contribution to the socio-economic development of the
Territories and could also make a valid contribution to the exercise of their right to
self-determination,

Concerned about any activities aimed at exploiting the natural and human
resources of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to the detriment of the interests of
the inhabitants of those Territories,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity, the South Pacific Forum and the Caribbean
Community,

1. Reaffirms the right of peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-
determination in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and with
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), containing the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as well as their right to the

__________________
5 A/55/23 (Part II), chap. V. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly,

Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/55/23).



6

A/55/575

enjoyment of their natural resources and their right to dispose of those resources in
their best interest;

2. Affirms the value of foreign economic investment undertaken in
collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in
accordance with their wishes in order to make a valid contribution to the socio-
economic development of the Territories;

3. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Powers under the
Charter to promote the political, economic, social and educational advancement of
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and reaffirms the legitimate rights of their
peoples over their natural resources;

4. Reaffirms its concern about any activities aimed at the exploitation of the
natural resources that are the heritage of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing
Territories, including the indigenous populations, in the Caribbean, the Pacific and
other regions, as well as their human resources, to the detriment of their interests,
and in such a way as to deprive them of their right to dispose of those resources;

5. Affirms the need to avoid any economic and other activities which
adversely affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

6. Calls once again upon all Governments that have not yet done so to take,
in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolution 2621
(XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other measures in respect
of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that own and
operate enterprises in the Non-Self-Governing Territories that are detrimental to the
interests of the inhabitants of those Territories, in order to put an end to such
enterprises;

7. Reiterates that the damaging exploitation and plundering of the marine
and other natural resources of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, in violation of the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations, is a threat to the integrity and prosperity
of those Territories;

8. Invites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations system
to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty of the peoples
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories over their natural resources is fully respected
and safeguarded;

9. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories to their natural resources and to establish and maintain control
over the future development of those resources, and requests the administering
Powers to take all necessary steps to protect the property rights of the peoples of
those Territories;

10. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no
discriminatory working conditions prevail in the Territories under their
administration and to promote in each Territory a fair system of wages applicable to
all the inhabitants without any discrimination;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to continue, through all means at his
disposal, to inform world public opinion of any activity that affects the exercise of



7

A/55/575

the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination
in conformity with the Charter and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

12. Appeals to the mass media, trade unions and non-governmental
organizations, as well as individuals, to continue their efforts to promote the
economic well-being of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

13. Decides to follow the situation in the Non-Self-Governing Territories so
as to ensure that all economic activities in those Territories are aimed at
strengthening and diversifying their economies in the interest of their peoples,
including the indigenous populations, and at promoting the economic and financial
viability of those Territories;

14. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon to
the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session.

*  *  *

12. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) also
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft decision:

Military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in
Territories under their administration

1. The General Assembly, having considered the chapter of the report of the
Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
relating to an item on the agenda of the Special Committee entitled “Military
activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their
administration”,6 and recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and
all other relevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to military
activities in colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories, reaffirms its strong
conviction that military bases and installations in the Territories concerned could
constitute an obstacle to the exercise by the people of those Territories of their right
to self-determination, and reiterates its strong views that existing bases and
installations, which are impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, should be withdrawn.

2. Aware of the presence of such bases and installations in some of those
Territories, the General Assembly urges the administering Powers concerned to
continue to take all necessary measures not to involve those Territories in any
offensive acts or interference against other States.

3. The General Assembly reiterates its concern that military activities and
arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration might run
counter to the rights and interests of the colonial peoples concerned, especially their
right to self-determination and independence. The Assembly once again calls upon
the administering Powers concerned to terminate such activities and to eliminate

__________________
6 A/55/23 (Part II), chap. VI. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly,

Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/55/23).



8

A/55/575

such military bases in compliance with its relevant resolutions. Alternative sources
of livelihood for the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories should be
provided.

4. The General Assembly reiterates that the colonial and Non-Self-
Governing Territories and areas adjacent thereto should not be used for nuclear
testing, dumping of nuclear wastes or deployment of nuclear or other weapons of
mass destruction.

5. The General Assembly deplores the continued alienation of land in
colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories, particularly in the small island
Territories of the Pacific and Caribbean regions, for military installations. The large-
scale utilization of local resources for this purpose could adversely affect the
economic development of the Territories concerned.

6. The General Assembly takes note of the decision of some of the
administering Powers to close or downsize some of those military bases in the Non-
Self-Governing Territories.

7. The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to continue to
inform world public opinion of those military activities and arrangements in colonial
and Non-Self-Governing Territories which constitute an obstacle to the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples.

8. The General Assembly requests the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this
question and to report thereon to the Assembly at its fifty-sixth session.


