





































United Nations A/55/576

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
20 October 2000

Original: English

00-70571 (E)    021100
`````````

Fifty-fifth session
Agenda items 90 and 12

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations

Report of the Economic and Social Council

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Shingo Miyamoto (Japan)

I. Introduction

1. At its 9th plenary meeting, on 11 September 2000, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-fifth session the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations” and
to allocate it to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth
Committee). The Assembly also referred to the Fourth Committee, under the item
entitled “Report of the Economic and Social Council”, chapter VII (section D) of the
report of the Economic and Social Council,1 relating to the item.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 13 September 2000, the Fourth Committee decided to
hold a general debate covering agenda items 18, 88, 89, 90 and 12, and 91. The
general debate on the items was held at the 3rd to 7th meetings, from 25 to 29
September (see A/C.4/55/SR.3-7). The Committee took action on items 90 and 12 at
its 8th meeting, on 3 October (see A/C.4/55/SR.8).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

__________________
1 A/55/3. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fifth Session,

Supplement No. 3 (A/55/3/Rev.1).



2

A/55/576

(a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (A/55/23 (Part II), chap. VII and
A/55/23 (Part III), chap. XIII);2

(b) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraph 21
of General Assembly resolution 54/85 of 6 December 1999 (A/55/72 and Corr.1).

II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in document
A/55/23 (Part III), chapter XIII, section C

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 25 September, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in
which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during
2000. He also drew attention to chapters VII and XIII of the report of that
Committee (see A/55/23 (Part II and Part III)), the latter containing, inter alia, the
related draft resolution submitted by the Special Committee for the consideration of
the Fourth Committee.

5. At the 5th meeting, on 27 September, with the Committee’s consent and in
accordance with established practice, Carlyle Corbin made a statement on behalf of
the Government of the United States Virgin Islands (see A/C.4/55/SR.5).

6. At its 8th meeting, on 3 October, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution III contained in chapter XIII, section C, of the report of the Special
Committee (see A/55/23 (Part III)) by a recorded vote of 74 to none, with 40
abstentions (see para. 9). The voting was as follows:3

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana,
Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
South Africa, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
None.

__________________
2 To be issued in Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 23

(A/55/23).
3 Subsequently, the delegation of Pakistan indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted

in favour; and the delegation of the Republic of Korea indicated that, had it been present, it
would have abstained.



3

A/55/576

Abstaining:
Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America.

7. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement in explanation of vote
was made by the representative of the United States of America; after the adoption
of the draft resolution, a statement in explanation of vote was made by the
representative of France, on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that
are members of the European Union (see A/C.4/55/SR.8).

8. The representative of Chad made a statement (see A/C.4/55/SR.8).

III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

9. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized
agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations”,

Having also considered the report of the Secretary-General on the item,4

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item,5

Recalling its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of
15 December 1960 and the resolutions of the Special Committee, as well as other
relevant resolutions and decisions, including in particular Economic and Social
Council resolution 1999/52 of 29 July 1999,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government

__________________
4 A/55/72 and Corr.1.
5 A/55/23 (Part II), chap. VII. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly,

Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/55/23).



4

A/55/576

of the Organization of African Unity, the South Pacific Forum and the Caribbean
Community,

Conscious of the need to facilitate the implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
resolution 1514 (XV),

Noting that the large majority of the remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories
are small island Territories,

Welcoming the assistance extended to Non-Self-Governing Territories by
certain specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, in
particular the United Nations Development Programme,

Also welcoming the current participation in the capacity of observer of those
Non-Self-Governing Territories that are associate members of regional commissions
in the world conferences in the economic and social sphere, subject to the rules of
procedure of the General Assembly and in accordance with relevant United Nations
resolutions and decisions, including resolutions and decisions of the Assembly and
the Special Committee on specific Territories, and in the special session of the
General Assembly on the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of the
Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and
Development, held at Headquarters from 30 June to 2 July 1999,

Noting that only some specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system have been involved in providing assistance to Non-Self-
Governing Territories,

Stressing that, because the development options of the small island Non-Self-
Governing Territories are limited, there are special challenges to planning for and
implementing sustainable development and that those Territories will be constrained
in meeting the challenges without the continued cooperation and assistance of the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system,

Stressing also the importance of securing the necessary resources for funding
expanded assistance programmes for the peoples concerned and the need to enlist
the support of all major funding institutions within the United Nations system in that
regard,

Reaffirming the mandates of the specialized agencies and other organizations
of the United Nations system to take all appropriate measures, within their
respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full implementation of General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions,

Expressing its appreciation to the Organization of African Unity, the South
Pacific Forum, the Caribbean Community and other regional organizations for the
continued cooperation and assistance they have extended to the specialized agencies
and other organizations of the United Nations system in this regard,

Expressing its conviction that closer contacts and consultations between and
among the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system and regional organizations help to facilitate the effective formulation of
assistance programmes to the peoples concerned,

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the activities
of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in



5

A/55/576

the implementation of the various United Nations decisions relating to
decolonization,

Bearing in mind the extremely fragile economies of the small island Non-Self-
Governing Territories and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such as hurricanes,
cyclones and sea-level rise, and recalling its relevant resolutions,

Recalling its resolution 54/85 of 6 December 1999 on the implementation of
the Declaration by the specialized agencies and the international institutions
associated with the United Nations,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;4

2. Recommends that all States intensify their efforts in the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to ensure the full and
effective implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV), and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

3. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organizations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute to the
implementation of the Declaration and all other relevant General Assembly
resolutions;

4. Reaffirms also that the recognition by the General Assembly, the Security
Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the aspirations of the
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to exercise their right to self-
determination entails, as a corollary, the extension of all appropriate assistance to
those peoples;

5. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system that have continued to cooperate with
the United Nations and the regional and subregional organizations in the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations, and requests all the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to implement the relevant provisions of
those resolutions;

6. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system and international and regional organizations to examine and review
conditions in each Territory so as to take appropriate measures to accelerate progress
in the economic and social sectors of the Territories;

7. Urges those specialized agencies and organizations of the United Nations
system that have not yet provided assistance to Non-Self-Governing Territories to do
so as soon as possible;

8. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations and institutions
of the United Nations system and regional organizations to strengthen existing
measures of support and formulate appropriate programmes of assistance to the
remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories, within the framework of their respective
mandates, in order to accelerate progress in the economic and social sectors of those
Territories;



6

A/55/576

9. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system concerned to provide information on:

(a) Environmental problems facing the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

(b) The impact of natural disasters, such as hurricanes and volcanic
eruptions, and other environmental problems, such as beach and coastal erosion and
droughts, on those Territories;

(c) Ways and means to assist the Territories to fight drug trafficking,
money-laundering and other illegal and criminal activities;

(d) The illegal exploitation of the marine resources of the Territories and the
need to utilize those resources for the benefit of the peoples of the Territories;

10. Recommends that the executive heads of the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations system formulate, with the active
cooperation of the regional organizations concerned, concrete proposals for the full
implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and submit the
proposals to their governing and legislative organs;

11. Also recommends that the specialized agencies and other organizations of
the United Nations system continue to review at the regular meetings of their
governing bodies the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)
and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

12. Welcomes the continuing initiative exercised by the United Nations
Development Programme in maintaining close liaison among the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system and in providing
assistance to the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

13. Encourages Non-Self-Governing Territories to take steps to establish
and/or strengthen disaster preparedness and management institutions and policies;

14. Requests the administering Powers concerned to facilitate, when
appropriate, the participation of appointed and elected representatives of Non-Self-
Governing Territories in the relevant meetings and conferences of the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, in accordance with
relevant United Nations resolutions and decisions, including resolutions and
decisions of the General Assembly and the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples on specific Territories, so that the Territories may
benefit from the related activities of those agencies and organizations;

15. Recommends that all Governments intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system of which
they are members to accord priority to the question of providing assistance to the
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

16. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the assistance of
those agencies and organizations, a report on the action taken in implementation of
the relevant resolutions, including the present resolution, since the circulation of his
previous report;



7

A/55/576

17. Commends the Economic and Social Council for its debate and resolution
on this question, and requests it to continue to consider, in consultation with the
Special Committee, appropriate measures for coordination of the policies and
activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations
system in implementing the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly;

18. Requests the specialized agencies to report periodically to the Secretary-
General on the implementation of the present resolution;

19. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to the
governing bodies of the appropriate specialized agencies and international
institutions associated with the United Nations so that those bodies may take the
necessary measures to implement it, and also requests the Secretary-General to
report to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session on the implementation of the
present resolution;

20. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question and
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session.


