





































United Nations A/55/L.10

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
20 October 2000

Original: English

00-69818 (E)    241000
`````````

Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 34
Oceans and the law of the sea

Australia, Barbados, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Lesotho,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Namibia, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Solomon
Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America and Uruguay: draft resolution

Oceans and the law of the sea

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 49/28 of 6 December 1994, 52/26 of 26 November
1997, 54/31 and 54/33 of 24 November 1999 and other relevant resolutions adopted
subsequent to the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea1 (“the Convention”) on 16 November 1994,

Recalling also its resolution 2749 (XXV) of 17 December 1970, and
considering that the Convention, together with the Agreement relating to the
Implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
of 10 December 19822 (“the Agreement”), provides the regime to be applied to the
Area and its resources, as defined in the Convention,

Emphasizing the universal and unified character of the Convention and its
fundamental importance for the maintenance and strengthening of international
peace and security, as well as for the sustainable use and development of the seas
and oceans and their resources,

Reaffirming that the Convention sets out the legal framework within which all
activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out and is of strategic importance as
the basis for national, regional and global action in the marine sector, and that its

__________________
1 Official Records of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, vol. XVII

(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.84.V.3), document A/CONF.62/122.
2 Resolution 48/263, annex.



2

A/55/L.10

integrity needs to be maintained, as recognized also by the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development in chapter 17 of Agenda 21,3

Conscious of the importance of increasing the number of States parties to the
Convention and the Agreement in order to achieve the goal of universal
participation,

Conscious also that the problems of ocean space are closely interrelated and
need to be considered as a whole,

Convinced of the need, building on arrangements established in accordance
with the Convention, to improve coordination at the national level and cooperation
and coordination at both intergovernmental and inter-agency levels, in order to
address all aspects of oceans and seas in an integrated manner,

Recognizing the important role that the competent international organizations
have in relation to ocean affairs and in implementing the Convention and in
promoting sustainable development of the oceans and seas and their resources,

Taking note of the report4 of the Secretary-General; and reaffirming the
importance of the annual consideration and review of developments relating to
ocean affairs and the law of the sea by the General Assembly as the global
institution having the competence to undertake such a review,

Taking note also of the outcome5 of the first meeting of the United Nations
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea (“the
Consultative Process”), established by the General Assembly in its resolution 54/33
in order to facilitate the annual review by the Assembly of developments in ocean
affairs,

Mindful of the importance of the oceans and seas for the earth’s ecosystem and
for providing the vital resources for food security and for sustaining economic
prosperity and the well-being of present and future generations,

Bearing in mind the contribution that major groups, as identified in Agenda 21,
can make to raising awareness of the goal of the sustainable development of the
oceans and seas and their resources,

Underlining the essential need for capacity-building to ensure that all States,
especially developing countries, in particular least developed countries and small
island developing States, have the ability both to implement the Convention and to
benefit from the sustainable development of their marine resources, as well as to
participate fully in global and regional forums and processes dealing with oceans
and law of the sea issues,

Expressing serious concern at the increase in illegal, unreported, and
unregulated fishing, and recognizing the importance of strengthening cooperation to
combat such activities, particularly through the relevant regional fisheries
management organizations and arrangements,

__________________
3 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro,

3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I:
Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II.

4 A/55/61.
5 A/55/274.



3

A/55/L.10

Recalling that the role of international cooperation and coordination on a
bilateral basis and, where applicable, within a subregional, interregional, regional or
global framework is to support and supplement national efforts of coastal States to
promote the integrated management and sustainable development of coastal and
marine areas,

Expressing its deep concern at the degradation of the marine environment,
particularly from land-based activities, and emphasizing the need for international
cooperation and for a coordinated approach at the national level to this problem,
bringing together the many different economic sectors involved and protecting the
ecosystems, and, in this context, reaffirming the importance of ensuring full
implementation of the Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine
Environment from Land-based Activities,

Reiterating its concern at the degradation of the marine environment as a result
of pollution from ships, in particular through the illegal release of oil and other
harmful substances, and as a result of pollution by dumping of hazardous waste,
including radioactive materials, nuclear waste and dangerous chemicals,

Recalling the importance of marine science in promoting the sustainable
management of the oceans and seas, including in the assessment, conservation,
management and sustainable use of fish stocks,

Emphasizing the need to ensure access of decision makers to advice and
information on marine science and technology, as well as to the transfer of
technology and support for the production and diffusion of factual information and
knowledge for end-users, as appropriate,

Expressing concern once again at the continuing threat from piracy and armed
robbery at sea, and, in this context, noting the letter from the Secretary-General of
the International Maritime Organization to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations6 drawing attention to the increasing number and seriousness of incidents of
piracy and armed robbery at sea,

Reaffirming the importance of enhancing the safety of navigation as well as the
necessity for cooperation in this regard,

Emphasizing the importance of the protection of the underwater cultural
heritage, and recalling in this context the provisions of article 303 of the
Convention,1

Noting the responsibilities of the Secretary-General under the Convention and
related resolutions of the General Assembly, in particular resolutions 49/28 and
52/26, and in this context the expected increase in responsibilities of the Division
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs of the
Secretariat in view of the progress in the work of the Commission on the Limits of
the Continental Shelf (“the Commission”) and the anticipated receipt of submissions
from States,

1. Calls upon all States that have not done so, in order to achieve the goal of
universal participation, to become parties to the Convention and the Agreement;

2. Reaffirms the unified character of the Convention;

__________________
6 A/55/311, annex.



4

A/55/L.10

3. Calls upon States to harmonize as a matter of priority their national
legislation with the provisions of the Convention, to ensure the consistent
application of those provisions and to ensure also that any declarations or statements
that they have made or make when signing, ratifying or acceding to the Convention
are in conformity therewith and otherwise to withdraw any of their declarations or
statements that are not in conformity;

4. Encourages States parties to the Convention to deposit with the
Secretary-General charts and lists of geographical coordinates, as provided for in the
Convention;

5. Urges the international community to assist, as appropriate, developing
countries, in particular, least developed countries and small island developing
States, in the acquisition of data and the preparation of charts or lists of
geographical coordinates for publication under articles 16, 22, 47, 75 and 84 of the
Convention and in the preparation of information under article 76 of the Convention
and its annex II;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to convene the eleventh Meeting of States
Parties to the Convention in New York from 14 to 18 May 2001 and to provide the
services required;

7. Notes with satisfaction the continued contribution of the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (“the Tribunal”) to the peaceful settlement of
disputes in accordance with Part XV of the Convention, underlines its important role
and authority concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention and the
Agreement, encourages States parties to the Convention to consider making a
written declaration choosing from the means set out in article 287 for the settlement
of disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention and the
Agreement, and invites States to note the provisions of annexes V, VI, VII and VIII
to the Convention concerning, respectively, conciliation, the Tribunal, arbitration
and special arbitration;

8. Recalls the obligations of parties to cases before a court or a tribunal
referred to in article 287 of the Convention to ensure prompt compliance with the
decisions rendered by such court or tribunal;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a voluntary trust fund to
assist States in the settlement of disputes through the Tribunal, and to report
annually to the Meeting of States Parties to the Convention on the status of the
fund;7

10. Invites States, intergovernmental organizations, national institutions, non-
governmental organizations, as well as natural and juridical persons, to make
voluntary financial contributions to the fund;

11. Encourages States that have not yet done so to nominate conciliators and
arbitrators in accordance with annexes V and VII to the Convention, and requests
the Secretary-General to continue to update and circulate lists of these conciliators
and arbitrators on a regular basis;

__________________
7 The terms of reference are contained in annex I to the present resolution.



5

A/55/L.10

12. Welcomes the adoption of the Regulations on Prospecting and
Exploration for Polymetallic Nodules in the Area8 by the Assembly of the
International Seabed Authority (“the Authority”) on 13 July 2000, and notes with
satisfaction that the Authority is now in a position to proceed to issue contracts to
the registered pioneer investors in accordance with the Convention, the Agreement
and those Regulations;

13. Appeals to all States parties to the Convention to pay their assessed
contributions to the Authority and the Tribunal in full and on time, and appeals also
to all former provisional members of the Authority to pay any outstanding
contributions;

14. Calls upon States that have not done so to consider ratifying or acceding
to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Tribunal9 and to the
Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Authority;10

15. Notes the continuing progress in the work of the Commission, including
the successful open meeting on 1 May 200011 aimed at assisting States in
implementing the provisions of the Convention related to the establishment of the
outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles and facilitating the
preparation of submissions to the Commission by coastal States regarding the outer
limits of their continental shelf;

16. Notes also that the Commission has issued a basic flowchart on the
preparation of submissions12 and has adopted, in outline, a five-day training course
on the delineation of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical
miles and for the preparation of submissions,13 and encourages concerned States and
relevant international organizations and institutions to consider further developing
and making available such training courses;

17. Recalls that under article 4 of annex II to the Convention, a State
intending to establish the outer limits of its continental shelf beyond 200 nautical
miles is to submit particulars of such limits to the Commission within ten years of
the entry into force of the Convention for that State;

18. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a voluntary trust fund to
provide training for technical and administrative staff, and technical and scientific
advice, as well as personnel, to assist developing States, in particular the least
developed countries and small island developing States, for the purpose of desktop
studies and project planning, and preparing and submitting information under article
76 and annex II to the Convention in accordance with the procedures of the
Scientific and Technical Guidelines of the Commission on the Limits of the
Continental Shelf, and to report annually to the General Assembly on the status of
the fund;14

19. Invites States, intergovernmental organizations and agencies, national
institutions, non-governmental organizations and international financial institutions

__________________
8 ISBA/6/A/18.
9 SPLOS/25.

10 ISBA/4/A/8, annex.
11 CLCS/26 (to be issued).
12 CLCS/22.
13 CLCS/24.
14 The terms of reference are contained in annex II to the present resolution.



6

A/55/L.10

as well as natural and juridical persons to make voluntary financial or other
contributions to the fund;

20. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a voluntary trust fund for the
purpose of defraying the cost of participation15 of the members of the Commission
from developing States in the meetings of the Commission, and invites States to
contribute to the fund;

21. Approves the convening by the Secretary-General of the ninth session of
the Commission in New York from 21 to 25 May 2001 and a tenth session starting
on 27 August 2001 of a duration of three weeks in the event of a submission having
been filed, or of one week, if necessary, depending on the workload of the
Commission;

22. Calls upon bilateral and multilateral donor agencies to keep their
programmes under review to ensure the availability in all States, particularly in
developing States, of the economic, legal, navigational, scientific and technical
capacities and skills necessary for the full implementation of the Convention and the
sustainable development of the oceans and seas and their resources, nationally,
regionally and globally, and in doing so to bear in mind the rights of landlocked
developing States;

23. Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the competent
international organizations and programmes including the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the International Labour Organization, the
International Hydrographic Organization, the International Maritime Organization,
the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization, the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United
Nations Environment Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, the World Meteorological Organization and the World Bank as well as
representatives of regional development banks and the donor community, to review
the efforts taking place to build capacity as well as to identify the duplications that
need to be avoided and the gaps that may need to be filled for ensuring consistent
approaches, both nationally and regionally, with a view to implementing the
Convention, and to include a section on this subject in his annual report on oceans
and the law of the sea;

24. Urges States to continue the development of an international plan of
action on illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing for the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, as a matter of priority, and, in this context,
recognizes the central role that regional and subregional fisheries organizations and
arrangements will have in addressing this issue;16

25. Emphasizes the importance of the implementation of Part XII of the
Convention in order to protect and preserve the marine environment, including
coastal areas, and its living marine resources against pollution and physical
degradation;

__________________
15 Covering both travel expenses and daily subsistence allowance.
16 See resolution 55/... on Large-scale pelagic drift-net fishing, unauthorized fishing in zones of

national jurisdiction and on the high seas, fisheries by-catch and discards, and other
developments.



7

A/55/L.10

26. Acknowledges the need to build national capacity for the integrated
management of the coastal zone and for the protection of its ecosystem, and invites
relevant parts of the United Nations system to promote these aims, including
through the provision of the training and institutional support needed to achieve
them;

27. Calls upon States to prioritize action on marine pollution from land-
based sources as part of their national sustainable development strategies and local
Agenda 21 programmes, in an integrated and inclusive manner, as a means of
enhancing their support for the Global Programme of Action, and calls for their
active collaboration to ensure that the 2001 intergovernmental review will enhance
the implementation of the Global Programme of Action;

28. Calls upon United Nations agencies and programmes identified in
General Assembly resolution 51/189 of 16 December 1996 to fulfil their roles in
support of the Global Programme of Action and to provide information to
Governments for their consideration at the 2001 intergovernmental review of the
Global Programme of Action and to the Secretary-General for his annual report on
oceans and the law of the sea on their action in this regard and on other steps which
could be taken to protect the marine environment;

29. Invites the United Nations Environment Programme and the World Bank,
as part of the preparations for 2001 review of the Global Programme of Action, to
consult with Governments, representatives of the private sector, financial
institutions and bilateral and multilateral donor agencies to review their involvement
in the implementation of the Global Programme of Action and to consider, inter alia,
what international support is needed to help overcome the obstacles to the
preparation and implementation of national and local action programmes and how
they can participate actively in partnership-building with developing countries for
the transfer of the requisite technology in accordance with the Convention and
taking into account the relevant parts of Agenda 21, capacity-building and funding
for the implementation of the Global Programme of Action;

30. Emphasizes the importance of ensuring that adverse impacts on the
marine environment are taken into account when assessing and evaluating
development programmes and projects;

31. Urges States to take all practicable steps, in accordance with the
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as
modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto, to prevent pollution of the marine
environment from ships and, in accordance with the 1972 Convention on the
Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter,17 to
prevent pollution of the marine environment by dumping, and further calls upon
States to become parties to and to implement the 1996 Protocol to the 1972
Convention;18

32. Stresses the need to consider as a matter of priority the issues of marine
science and technology and to focus on how best to implement the many obligations
of States and competent international organizations under Parts XIII and XIV of the
Convention, and calls upon States to adopt, as appropriate and in accordance with

__________________
17 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1046, No. 15749.
18 IMO/LC.2/Circ.380.



8

A/55/L.10

international law, the necessary national laws, regulations, policies and procedures
to promote and facilitate marine scientific research and cooperation;

33. Urges all States, in particular coastal States, in affected regions to take
all necessary and appropriate measures to prevent and combat incidents of piracy
and armed robbery at sea, including through regional cooperation, and to investigate
or cooperate in the investigation of such incidents wherever they occur and bring the
alleged perpetrators to justice in accordance with international law;

34. Calls upon States, in this context, to cooperate fully with the
International Maritime Organization, including by submitting reports on incidents to
the organization and by implementing the International Maritime Organization
guidelines on preventing attacks of piracy and armed robbery;

35. Urges States to become parties to the Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation and its Protocol,19 and to
ensure its effective implementation;

36. Notes the continued work of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization towards a convention for the implementation of the
provisions of the Convention, relating to the protection of the underwater cultural
heritage, and re-emphasizes the importance of ensuring that the instrument to be
elaborated is in full conformity with the relevant provisions of the Convention;

37. Invites Member States and others in a position to do so to contribute to
the further development of the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe Memorial Fellowship
Programme on the Law of the Sea established by the General Assembly in resolution
35/116 of 10 December 1980 and to support the training activities under the TRAIN-
SEA-COAST Programme of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea;

38. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the annual
comprehensive report on oceans and the law of the sea,4 prepared by the Division
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs of the
Secretariat, as well as for the other activities of the Division, in accordance with the
provisions of the Convention and the mandate set forth in resolutions 49/28, 52/26
and 54/33;

39. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to carry out the
responsibilities entrusted to him in the Convention and related resolutions of the
General Assembly, including resolutions 49/28 and 52/26, and to ensure that
appropriate resources are made available to the Division for Ocean Affairs and the
Law of the Sea for the performance of such responsibilities under the approved
budget for the Organization;

40. Reaffirms its decision to undertake an annual review and evaluation of
the implementation of the Convention and other developments relating to ocean
affairs and the law of the sea, taking into account resolution 54/33 establishing the
Consultative Process to facilitate the review of developments in ocean affairs, and
requests the Secretary-General to convene the second meeting of the Consultative
Process, to be held in New York from 7 to 11 May 2001;

__________________
19 International Maritime Organization publication, Sales No. 462.88.12E.



9

A/55/L.10

41. Recommends that, in its deliberations on the report of the Secretary-
General on oceans and the law of the sea at its second meeting, the Consultative
Process should organize its discussions around the following areas of focus:

(a) Marine science and the development and transfer of marine technology as
mutually agreed, including capacity-building in this regard;

(b) Coordination and cooperation in combating piracy and armed robbery at
sea.

42. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure more effective collaboration
and coordination between the relevant parts of the United Nations Secretariat and
the United Nations as a whole, in particular in ensuring the effectiveness,
transparency and responsiveness of the Subcommittee on Oceans and Coastal Areas
of the Administrative Committee on Coordination, and also requests the Secretary-
General to include in his report suggestions on initiatives to improve coordination,
in accordance with resolution 54/33, and encourages all United Nations bodies to
help this process by drawing to the attention of the Secretariat and the
Subcommittee those areas of their work which may, directly or indirectly, affect the
work of other United Nations bodies;

43. Also requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the
attention of heads of intergovernmental organizations, the specialized agencies and
funds and programmes of the United Nations engaged in activities relating to ocean
affairs and the law of the sea, and the Subcommittee on Oceans and Coastal Areas of
the Administrative Committee on Coordination, drawing their attention to
paragraphs of particular relevance to them, and underlines the importance of their
input for the report of the Secretary-General on oceans and the law of the sea and of
their participation in relevant meetings and processes;

44. Invites the competent international organizations, as well as funding
institutions, to take specific account of the present resolution in their programmes
and activities, and to contribute to the preparation of the comprehensive report of
the Secretary-General on oceans and the law of the sea;

45. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a voluntary trust fund for the
purpose of assisting developing countries, in particular least developed countries,
small island developing States and landlocked developing States, in attending the
meetings of the Consultative Process, and invites States to contribute to this fund;

46. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-sixth session on the implementation of the present resolution, including
other developments and issues relating to ocean affairs and the law of the sea, in
connection with his annual comprehensive report on oceans and the law of the sea,
and to provide the report in accordance with the modalities set out in resolution
54/33;

47. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-sixth session the
item entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea”.



10

A/55/L.10

Annex I
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea Trust Fund

Terms of reference

Reasons for establishing the Trust Fund

1. Part XV of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (“the
Convention”) provides for the settlement of disputes. In particular, article 287
specifies that States are free to choose one or more of the following means:

(a) The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea;

(b) The International Court of Justice;

(c) An arbitral tribunal;

(d) A special arbitral tribunal.

2. The Secretary-General already operates a Trust Fund for the International
Court of Justice (see A/47/444). The Permanent Court of Arbitration has established
a Financial Assistance Fund. The burden of costs should not be a factor for States, in
making the choices under article 287, in deciding whether a dispute should be
submitted to the Tribunal, or in deciding upon the response to an application made
to the Tribunal by others. For these reasons, it was decided to create a Trust Fund
for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (“the Tribunal”).

Object and purpose of the Trust Fund

3. This Trust Fund (“the Fund”) is established by the Secretary-General in
accordance with General Assembly resolution XXX and pursuant to the Agreement
on Cooperation and Relationship between the United Nations and the Tribunal of 18
December 1997 (General Assembly resolution 52/251, annex).

4. The purpose of the Fund is to provide financial assistance to States parties to
the Convention for expenses incurred in connection with cases submitted, or to be
submitted, to the Tribunal, including its Seabed Disputes Chamber and any other
Chamber.

5. Assistance, which will be provided in accordance with the following terms and
conditions, should only be provided in appropriate cases, principally those
proceeding to the merits where jurisdiction is not an issue, but in exceptional
circumstances may be provided for any phase of the proceedings.

Contributions to the Fund

6. The Secretary-General invites States, intergovernmental organizations,
national institutions, non-governmental organizations, as well as natural and
juridical persons, to make voluntary financial contributions to the Fund.

Application for assistance

7. An application for assistance from the Fund may be submitted by any State
party to the Convention. The application should describe the nature of the case
which is to be, or has been, brought by or against the State concerned and should



11

A/55/L.10

provide an estimate of the costs for which financial assistance is requested. The
application should contain a commitment to supply a final statement of account of
the expenditures made from approved amounts, to be certified by an auditor
acceptable to the United Nations.

Panel of experts

8. The Secretary-General will establish a panel of experts, normally three persons
of the highest professional standing, to make recommendations on each request. The
task of each panel is to examine the application and to recommend to the Secretary-
General the amount of the financial assistance to be given, the phase or phases of
the proceedings in respect of which assistance is to be given and the types of
expenses for which the assistance may be used.

Granting of assistance

9. The Secretary-General will provide financial assistance from the Fund on the
basis of the recommendations of the panel of experts. Payments will be made
against receipts showing expenditures made in respect of approved costs. The latter
may include:

(a) Preparing the application and the written pleadings;

(b) Professional fees of counsel and advocates for written and oral pleadings;

(c) Travel and expenses of legal representation in Hamburg during the
various phases of a case;

(d) Execution of an Order of Judgment of the Tribunal, such as marking a
boundary in the territorial sea.

Application of the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations

10. The Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations will apply to the
administration of the Fund, including the procedures for audit.

Reporting

11. An annual report on the activities of the Fund, including details of the
contributions to and disbursements from the Fund, will be made to the Meeting of
States Parties to the Convention.

Implementing office

12. The Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal
Affairs is the implementing office for this Fund and provides the services for the
operation of the Fund.

Offers of professional assistance

13. The implementing office also maintains a list of offers of professional
assistance which may be made on a reduced fee basis by suitably qualified persons
or bodies. If an applicant for assistance so requests, the implementing office will
make the list of offers available to it for its consideration and decision; both



12

A/55/L.10

financial and other assistance may be extended in respect of the same case or phase
thereof.

Revision

14. The General Assembly may revise the above if circumstances so require.



13

A/55/L.10

Annex II
Trust fund for the purpose of facilitating the preparation of
submissions to the Commission on the Limits of the Continental
Shelf for developing States, in particular the least developed
countries and small island developing States, and compliance with
article 76 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea

Terms of reference, guidelines and rules

1. Reasons for establishing the Trust Fund

1. Promoting and developing the marine scientific and technological capacity of
developing States, in particular the least developed countries and small island
States, with a view to accelerating their social and economic development, is
essential for the effective implementation of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (“the Convention”).

2. Coastal States intending to establish the outer limits of their continental shelf
beyond 200 nautical miles from the baseline from which the breadth of their
territorial sea is measured are required by article 76 of the Convention to submit the
relevant data and information to the Commission on the Limits of the Continental
Shelf (“the Commission”). In accordance with article 4 of annex II to the
Convention, the particulars of such limits should be submitted to the Commission
within ten years of the entry into force of the Convention for that State. For some
States a submission should be made by 16 November 2004.

3. Developing States, in particular the least developed countries and small island
developing States, may face difficulties in complying with the time limit for
submissions to the Commission. The Trust Fund is intended to assist these States in
complying with the requirements relating to a submission to the Commission.

4. Under article 3, paragraph 1 (b), of annex II to the Convention, the
Commission may provide scientific and technical advice, if requested by the coastal
States concerned, during the preparation of the data to be submitted in accordance
with article 76.

5. The Commission has adopted an outline for a five-day training course in order
to facilitate the preparation of submissions in accordance with its Scientific and
Technical Guidelines. The course is to be developed and delivered by interested
Governments, international organizations and institutions which possess the
necessary expertise and facilities. The Commission has likewise prepared a basic
flow chart illustrating the preparation of submissions by coastal States.

6. The delineation of the continental shelf of a coastal State in accordance with
article 76 and annex II to the Convention and annex II of the Final Act of the Third
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea (“the Final Act”) requires a
programme for hydrographic and geoscientific surveying and mapping of the
continental margin. The complexity and scale, and hence the costs involved, of such
a programme will vary greatly from State to State according to the different
geographical and geophysical circumstances. A first approach will always involve
an assessment of the particular case at hand, followed by planning of appropriate
projects for further data acquisition. Such projects require the contracting of high-



14

A/55/L.10

level scientific/technical expertise and modern technology. By nature, the costs
involved in such data acquisition projects are substantial. In addition to contributing
to the Voluntary Fund herein established, the international community should make
every effort to facilitate the full implementation of article 76 both financially and in
any other possible way or capacity.

7. The initial assessment and the project planning itself will require qualifications
in hydrography and geosciences in addition to a full understanding of the relevant
provisions of the Convention. The final preparation of a submission to the
Commission also requires high-level expertise in geosciences and hydrography.

8. The United Nations has extensive experience in providing assistance to
countries for their industrial and economic development. This experience could be
extended and utilized to assist States in implementing their rights and obligations
under article 76 of the Convention.

2. Objects and purpose of the Trust Fund

9. The Secretary-General, under the Financial Regulations and Rules of the
United Nations, establishes the present Trust Fund (“the Fund”). The object of the
Fund is to enable developing States, in particular the least developed coastal
countries and small island developing States, to make an initial assessment of their
particular case, make appropriate plans for further investigations and data
acquisition, and to prepare the final submission documents when the necessary data
have been acquired.

10. The data acquisition campaigns themselves are not the object of the Fund.

11. An initial assessment of the nature of the continental shelf of a coastal State is
often made in the form of a desktop study, which is a review and compilation of all
existing data and information. Decisions for further action and/or planning for
further data acquisition and mapping projects will be based on such a study.

12. The purpose of the Fund is to provide, in accordance with the terms and
conditions specified in the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations:

(a) Training to the appropriate technical and administrative staff of the
coastal State in question, in order to enable them to perform initial desktop studies
and project planning, or at least to take full part in these activities;

(b) Funds for such studies and planning activities, including funds for
advisory/consultancy assistance if needed.

13. The preparation of the final submission documents will have to meet the
requirements of article 76 and annex II to the Convention (and for some States,
annex II of the Final Act) and the Scientific and Technical Guidelines of the
Commission. The training should take this into account and aim at enabling the
State’s personnel also to prepare most of these documents themselves. The
preparation of the submission may induce costs that may be met by funds from the
Fund (e.g. software and hardware equipment, technical assistance, etc.).



15

A/55/L.10

3. Contributions to the Fund

14. The Secretary-General invites States, intergovernmental organizations and
agencies, national institutions, non-governmental organizations and international
financial institutions as well as natural and juridical persons to make voluntary
financial or other contributions to the Fund.

4. Application for financial assistance

15. An application for financial assistance from the Fund may be submitted by any
developing State, in particular the least developed countries and small island
developing States, who are Members of the United Nations and party to the
Convention.

16. The purpose of the financial assistance applied for should be specified.
Financial assistance may be sought for the following purposes:

(a) Training of technical and administrative staff;

(b) Desktop study or other means to make an initial assessment of the nature
of the continental shelf and its limits;

(c) Working out plans for the acquisition of necessary additional data and
mapping projects;

(d) Preparation of final submission documents;

(e) Advisory/consultancy assistance related to the above points.

17. Detailed information under each of these purposes should be provided as
follows:

(a) Training of technical and administrative staff

The application shall be accompanied by:

(i) A specification of the goal of the training and which positions the
trainees are intended to fill afterwards;

(ii) Information on the training institute(s) in question;

(iii) A copy of the training course(s);

(iv) The curriculum vitae of the trainees;

(v) An itemized statement of the estimated costs for which assistance is
requested.

(b) Desktop study or other means to make an assessment of the nature of the
continental shelf and its limits

The application shall be accompanied by:

(i) A short description of the aim of the study;

(ii) An overview map of the area in question;

(iii) An overview, as complete as possible, of the database already
available to the State;



16

A/55/L.10

(iv) An outline of how the work will be done and what tools are
available (software and hardware);

(v) A specification of what will be done by the State’s own staff, and
what will be contracted for;

(vi) An itemized statement of the estimated costs for which assistance is
requested.

(c) Working out plans for the acquisition of necessary additional data and
mapping projects

The application shall be accompanied by:

(i) A summary of the status of knowledge of the continental margin,
preferably based on a previous desktop study;

(ii) A preliminary assessment of the needs for specific additional data
and/or information in accordance with the requirements of article 76 and
annex II to the Convention, and annex II of the Final Act;

(iii) An itemized statement of the estimated costs for which assistance is
requested.

(d) Preparation of final submission documents

The application shall be accompanied by:

(i) A specification of what kind of assistance is needed;

(ii) An itemized statement of the estimated costs for which assistance is
requested.

(e) Advisory/consultancy assistance related to the above points

The application shall be accompanied by:

(i) A copy of the contract between the Government and the technical or
scientific expert in question;

(ii) An itemized statement of the costs for which assistance is
requested.

18. In all these cases the application shall be accompanied by an undertaking that
the requesting State shall supply a final statement of account providing details of the
expenditures made from the approved amounts, to be certified by an auditor
acceptable to the United Nations.

5. Consideration of applications

19. Each request for financial assistance shall be considered by the Division for
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs (“the
Division”), which acts as the secretariat of the Commission.

20. The Division may engage an independent panel of experts of the highest moral
standing to assist in the examination of applications on the basis of section 4 above
and to recommend the amount of financial assistance to be given. However, no
sitting Commission member should serve on this panel of experts. The Division
shall prepare and circulate to member States a list of prospective members of the



17

A/55/L.10

panel of experts. Any member of the expert panel opposed by a member State
should not be included in the panel. The Division shall on an annual basis provide a
list of the panel of experts as an annex to the Secretary-General’s annual report.

21. In considering the application, the Division shall be guided solely by the
financial needs of the requesting developing State and availability of funds with
priority given to least developed countries and small island developing States taking
into account the imminence of pending deadlines.

22. Travel expenses and subsistence allowance are payable to independent experts
engaged by the Division to consider applications.

6. Granting of assistance

23. The Secretary-General will provide financial assistance from the Fund on the
basis of the evaluation and recommendations of the Division. Payments will be
made against receipts evidencing actual expenditures for approved costs.

7. Application of article 5 of annex II to the Convention

24. Nationals of the coastal State making the submission who are members of the
Commission and any Commission member who has assisted a coastal State by
providing scientific and technical advice with respect to the delineation shall not be
a member of the subcommission dealing with that submission but has the right to
participate as a member in the proceedings of the Commission concerning the said
submission. In an effort to promote transparency and to give full effect to article 5
of annex II to the Convention there should be full disclosure by Commission
members, trust fund recipients and training sponsors to the Division of any pre-
submission contacts.

8. Reporting requirements for full disclosure

25. Interested Governments, international organizations and institutions who
provide any training for which any costs are reimbursed by this Fund are strongly
encouraged to provide the complete list of participants to the Division.

26. Commission members who participate in any activities pursuant to this Fund
shall disclose this information to the Division.

27. Upon submission to the Commission of its information on the limits of its
continental shelf pursuant to article 76 of the Convention, a coastal State that has
received assistance from this Fund shall disclose this information, including the
involvement of any Commission members.

9. Application of the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations

28. The Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations shall apply to the
administration of the Fund. The Fund shall be subject to the auditing procedures
provided therein.

10. Reporting to the General Assembly

29. An annual report on the activities of the Fund, including details of the
contributions to and disbursements from the Fund, will be made to the General
Assembly.



18

A/55/L.10

11. Implementing office

30. The Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal
Affairs is the implementing office for the Fund and will provide the services
required for the operation of the Fund.

12. Revision

31. The General Assembly may revise the above if circumstances so require.


