












































United Nations A/57/524

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
18 November 2002

Original: English

02-65118 (E)    111102

*0265118*

Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 80

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories
transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the
United Nations

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Andrej Droba (Slovakia)

I. Introduction

1. At its 19th plenary meeting, on 20 September 2002, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-seventh session the item entitled “Information from Non-Self-Governing
Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations” and
to allocate it to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth
Committee).

2. At its 1st meeting, on 26 September 2002, the Fourth Committee decided to
hold a general debate covering agenda items 19, 80, 81, 82 and 12, and 83. The
general debate on the items was held at the 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 6th meetings, on 30
September and on 1, 3 and 4 October (see A/C.4/57/SR.2, 3, 5 and 6). The
Committee took action on item 80 at its 6th meeting, on 4 October (see
A/C.4/57/SR.6).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:



2

A/57/524

(a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (A/57/23 (Part II), chap. VIII and
A/57/23 (Part III), chap. XIII);1

(b) Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/74).

II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in document
A/57/23 (Part III), chapter XIII, section A

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 30 September, the Rapporteur of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement
in which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee
during 2002. He also drew attention to chapters VIII and XIII of the report of that
Committee (see A/57/23 (Part II and Part III)), the latter containing, inter alia, the
related draft resolution entitled “Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories
transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations” submitted by
the Special Committee for the consideration of the Fourth Committee.

5. At its 6th meeting, on 4 October, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution I contained in chapter XIII, section A, of the report of the Special
Committee (see A/57/23 (Part III)) by a recorded vote of 118 to none, with 4
abstentions (see para. 7). The voting was as follows:2

In favour:
Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Bahrain, Belarus, Belize,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia,
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Netherlands, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

__________________
1 To be issued in Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No.

23 (A/57/23).
2 Subsequently, the delegation of the Sudan indicated that it had intended to vote in favour, and

the delegations of Bangladesh, Latvia and Nigeria indicated that, had they been present, they
would have voted in favour.



3

A/57/524

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
France, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United

States of America.

6. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement in explanation of vote
was made by the representative of the United Kingdom (see A/C.4/57/SR.6).

III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution:

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the
United Nations3 and the action taken by the Special Committee in respect of that
information,

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General,4

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee to study the information transmitted to the
Secretary-General in accordance with Article 73 e of the Charter of the United
Nations and to take such information fully into account in examining the situation
with regard to the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Recalling also its resolution 56/65 of 10 December 2001, in which it requested
the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted to it under
resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Stressing the importance of timely transmission by the administering Powers
of adequate information under Article 73 e of the Charter, in particular in relation to
the preparation by the Secretariat of the working papers on the Territories
concerned,

1. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of self-

__________________
3 A/57/23 (Part II), chap. VIII. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly,

Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/56/23).
4 A/57/74.



4

A/57/524

government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter of the United Nations, the
administering Power concerned should continue to transmit information under
Article 73 e of the Charter with respect to that Territory;

2. Requests the administering Powers concerned to transmit or continue to
transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 e of the
Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and constitutional
developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum period of six months
following the expiration of the administrative year in those Territories;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the
preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concerned;

4. Requests the Special Committee on the situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to discharge the functions entrusted to it under
General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with established
procedures.


