





































United Nations A/57/510

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
11 November 2002

Original: English

02-68588 (E)    201102
*0268588*

Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 66

General and complete disarmament

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Mehmet Samsar (Turkey)

I. Introduction

1. The item entitled:

“General and complete disarmament:

“(a) Notification of nuclear tests;

“(b) Towards a nuclear-weapon-free world: the need for a new agenda;

“(c) United Nations study on disarmament and non-proliferation education;

“(d) Measures to uphold the authority of the 1925 Geneva Protocol;

“(e) Mongolia’s international security and nuclear-weapon-free status;

“(f) Preservation of and compliance with the Treaty on the Limitation of
Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems;

“(g) Missiles;

“(h) Reducing nuclear danger;

“(i) Convening of the fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted
to disarmament;

“(j) Relationship between disarmament and development;

“(k) Observance of environmental norms in the drafting and implementation
of agreements on disarmament and arms control;

“(l) Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas;

“(m) Regional disarmament;

“(n) Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels;



2

A/57/510

“(o) Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and
on Their Destruction;

“(p) Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use,
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on
Their Destruction;

“(q) Consolidation of peace through practical disarmament measures;

“(r) Transparency in armaments;

“(s) Nuclear disarmament;

“(t) Follow-up to the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on
the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons;

“(u) Assistance to States for curbing the illicit traffic in small arms and
collecting them;

“(v) The illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects;

“(w) Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia;

“(x) United Nations conference to identify ways of eliminating nuclear
dangers in the context of nuclear disarmament”

was included in the provisional agenda of the fifty-seventh session of the General
Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 42/38 C of 30 November 1987,
55/34 E, J and S of 20 November 2000, 56/24 A to I, K, M, P, Q to S, U and V of 29
November 2001 and decisions 56/411, 56/412 and 56/413 of 29 November 2001.

2. At its 19th plenary meeting, on 20 September 2002, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 1st meeting, on 27 September 2002, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to it,
namely items 57, 58 and 60 to 73, which was held at the 2nd to 10th meetings, from
30 September to 4 October and on 7, 9 and 10 October (see A/C.1/57/PV.2-10).
Thematic discussions on the items were held, and draft resolutions were introduced
and considered, at the 11th to 16th meetings, from 14 to 18 October (see
A/C.1/57/PV.11-16). Action on all draft resolutions was taken at the 17th to 23rd
meetings, from 21 to 23 and on 25, 28 and 29 October (see A/C.1/57/PV.17-23).

4. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament;1

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission;2

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to the advisory opinion
of the International Court of Justice on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear
Weapons (A/57/95 and Add.1 and 2);

__________________
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/57/27).
2 Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/57/42).



3

A/57/510

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on missiles (A/57/114 and Add.1 and 2);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on conventional arms control at the
regional and subregional levels (A/57/117);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on the convening of the fourth special
session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament (A/57/120);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on the observance of environmental
norms in the drafting and implementation of agreements on disarmament and arms
control (A/57/121 and Add.1 and 2);

(h) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations study on
disarmament and non-proliferation education (A/57/124);

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on Mongolia’s international security and
nuclear-weapon-free status (A/57/159);

(j) Report of the Secretary-General on the illicit trade in small arms and
light weapons in all its aspects (A/57/160);

(k) Report of the Secretary-General on the relationship between disarmament
and development (A/57/167 and Add.1);

(l) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to States for curbing the
illicit traffic in small arms and collecting them (A/57/209);

(m) Report of the Secretary-General on the consolidation of peace through
practical disarmament measures (A/57/210);

(n) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Register of
Conventional Arms (A/57/221 and Corr.1 and A/57/221/Add.1);

(o) Report of the Secretary-General on the issue of missiles in all its aspects
(A/57/229);

(p) Report of the Secretary-General on reducing nuclear danger (A/57/401);

(q) Note by the Secretary-General on measures to uphold the authority of the
1925 Geneva Protocol (A/57/96);

(r) Note by the Secretary-General on nuclear disarmament (A/57/383);

(s) Letter dated 12 March 2002 from the Permanent Representative of
Mongolia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/57/59);

(t) Letter dated 10 May 2002 from the Permanent Representative of Ukraine
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/57/82);

(u) Letter dated 14 June 2002 from the Permanent Representative of the
Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the Declaration signed at St. Petersburg on 7 June 2002 by the heads of
State of the members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (A/57/88-
S/2002/672);

(v) Letter dated 20 June 2002 from the Permanent Representative of the
Russian Federation to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/57/92);



4

A/57/510

(w) Letter dated 10 September 2002 from the Permanent Representative of
Portugal to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/57/393);

(x) Letter dated 20 September 2002 from the Permanent Representative of
Kazakhstan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/57/423-
S/2002/1065);

(y) Letter dated 23 September 2002 from the Permanent Representative of
Ireland to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/57/425);

(z) Letter dated 24 October 2002 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/57/596);

(aa) Letter dated 7 November 2002 from the Permanent Representative of
Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/57/597).

II. Consideration of proposals

A. Draft resolutions

1. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.2 and Rev.1

5. At the 11th meeting, on 14 October, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of
Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and Sweden, introduced
a draft resolution entitled “Reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons”
(A/C.1/57/L.2), which read:

“The General Assembly,

“Recalling its resolution 55/33 D of 20 November 2000,

“Taking into account the advisory opinion of the International Court of
Justice on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued on 8
July 1996, and its unanimous conclusion that ‘there exists an obligation to
pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear
disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control’,

“Stressing the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon States in
the Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to accomplish the total
elimination of their nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear disarmament, a goal to
which all States parties to the Treaty are committed under its article VI,

“Reaffirming the necessity of strict compliance by all parties with their
obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and
the necessity of upholding their commitments in associated decisions and final
documents agreed at the 2000 and 1995 Review Conference,

“Noting the importance attached to the issue of reducing non-strategic
nuclear weapons by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in his report
to the Millennium Assembly,

“Stressing the commitment made in the Final Document of the 2000
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons to the further reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons,



5

A/57/510

“Concerned that the total number of nuclear weapons deployed and in
stockpile still amounts to many thousands,

“Reiterating the particular responsibility of the nuclear-weapon States for
transparent, verifiable and irreversible reductions in nuclear weapons leading
to nuclear disarmament,

“1. Agrees that the further reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons
should be accorded priority;

“2. Agrees also that the reduction and elimination of non-strategic
nuclear weapons should be included as an integral part of the nuclear-arms
reduction and disarmament process;

“3. Agrees further that the reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons
should be carried out in a transparent and irreversible manner;

“4. Agrees on the importance of preserving, reaffirming, implementing
and building upon the 1991 and 1992 Presidential Nuclear Initiatives of the
United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics/Russian
Federation on non-strategic nuclear weapons;

“5. Calls upon the Russian Federation and the United States of America
to codify the Presidential Nuclear Initiatives into a legally binding treaty;

“6. Calls for further confidence-building and transparency measures to
reduce the threats posed by non-strategic nuclear weapons;

“7. Calls also for concrete agreed measures to further reduce the
operational status of non-strategic nuclear weapons systems;

“8. Calls upon the Russian Federation and the United States of America
to initiate negotiations on an effectively verifiable agreement on significant
reductions of non-strategic nuclear weapons;

“9. Agrees on the importance of special security and physical protection
measures for the transport and storage of non-strategic nuclear weapons;

“10. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-eighth session containing the views of Member States on
the issue of reductions of non-strategic nuclear weapons;

“11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth
session an item entitled ‘Reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons’.”

6. On 23 October, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/57/L.2/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.2
and Fiji, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tuvalu and Ukraine.
Subsequently, Paraguay, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Uruguay and
Vanuatu also joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

7. At its 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.2/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 115 to 3, with 38 abstentions (see para.
90, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,



6

A/57/510

Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Ghana,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America.

Abstaining:
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Yugoslavia.

2. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.3 and Rev.1

8. At the 11th meeting, on 14 October, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of
Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and Sweden, introduced
a draft resolution entitled “Towards a nuclear-weapon-free world: the need for a new
agenda” (A/C.1/57/L.3).

9. On 18 October, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/57/L.3/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.3
and Algeria, Bangladesh, Fiji, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tuvalu
and Ukraine. Subsequently, Austria, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, the Gambia,
Ghana, Grenada, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Paraguay, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sierra Leone, Uruguay and Vanuatu joined in
sponsoring the revised draft resolution. The revised draft resolution contained the
following changes:

(a) The fifth preambular paragraph, which read:

“Recalling the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, on
the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued on 8 July 1996,
and its unanimous conclusion that ‘there exists an obligation to pursue in good
faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in
all its aspects under strict and effective international control’”,



7

A/57/510

was replaced by:

“Noting the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued at The Hague on 8
July 1996”;

(b) The seventeenth preambular paragraph, which read:

“Expressing its deep concern about emerging approaches to the broader
role of nuclear weapons as part of security strategies, including the
development of new types, and rationalizations for the use, of nuclear
weapons”,

was replaced by:

“Expressing its deep concern that emerging approaches to the broader
role of nuclear weapons as part of security strategies could lead to the
development of new types, and rationalizations for the use, of nuclear
weapons”;

(c) In the eighteenth preambular paragraph, the word “strategic” before the
words “missile defences” was deleted;

(d) After the twentieth preambular paragraph, two new paragraphs were
added, reading:

“Welcoming the announcement by Cuba of its intention to accede to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to ratify the Treaty of
Tlatelolco,

“Welcoming also the conclusion of negotiations among the Central Asian
States on a treaty on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in that
region, and underlining the importance of its entry into force as soon as
possible”;

(e) In operative paragraph 1, the words “the growing possibility” were
replaced by the words “any possibility”;

(f) Operative paragraph 11, which read:

“11. Reaffirms that the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty is particularly urgent since the process of the installation of an
international system to monitor nuclear-weapons tests under the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is more advanced than the real
prospects of entry into force of the Treaty, a situation which is not consistent
with a universal and comprehensive test-ban treaty”,

was replaced by:

“11. Underlines the urgency of the entry into force of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty in the context of the progress in
implementing the international system to monitor nuclear weapons tests under
the Treaty”.

10. At its 21st meeting, on 25 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.3/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 118 to 7, with 38 abstentions (see para.
90, draft resolution B). The voting was as follows:



8

A/57/510

In favour:
Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Georgia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and Grenadines, Samoa,
San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
France, India, Israel, Monaco, Pakistan, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining:
Albania, Australia, Belgium, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria,
Cameroon, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Mauritius, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
Uzbekistan, Yugoslavia.

3. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.7 and Rev.1 and 2

11. At the 8th meeting, on 9 October, the representative of Mexico, on behalf of
Indonesia, Mexico, Peru, Senegal, South Africa, Sweden and Ukraine, introduced a
draft resolution entitled “United Nations study on disarmament and non-
proliferation education” (A/C.1/57/L.7).

12. On 16 October, the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.7, joined by
Algeria, Argentina, Egypt, Hungary, Japan, Monaco, New Zealand, Poland and
Thailand, submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/57/L.7/Rev.1), which
contained the following changes:

(a) The fourth preambular paragraph, which read:

“Convinced that the need has never been greater for disarmament and
non-proliferation education, especially on weapons of mass destruction, but
also in the field of small arms and light weapons and international terrorism”,

was replaced by:



9

A/57/510

“Convinced that the need has never been greater for disarmament and
non-proliferation education, especially on weapons of mass destruction, but
also in the field of small arms and light weapons, terrorism and other
challenges to international security and the process of disarmament”;

(b) Operative paragraph 2, which read:

“2. Conveys those recommendations for consideration by Member
States, civil society, non-governmental organizations and the media”,

was replaced by:

“2. Conveys the recommendations for implementation, as appropriate,
by Member States, the United Nations and other international organizations,
civil society non-governmental organizations and the media”.

13. On 18 October, the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.7/Rev.1 and Brazil,
Canada, Chile, India, Norway, Pakistan and Paraguay, subsequently joined by
Australia, submitted a second revised draft resolution (A/C.1/57/L.7/Rev.2), in
which, in the second preambular paragraph, the words “and non-proliferation” were
inserted after the word “disarmament”.

14. At its 19th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.7/Rev.2 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution C).

4. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.8 and Rev.1

15. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of South Africa, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a draft resolution entitled
“Convening of the fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to
disarmament” (A/C.1/57/L.8).

16. At the 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the representative of South Africa, on
behalf of the sponsors, introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/57/L.8/Rev.1),
which contained the following changes:

(a) In operative paragraph 1, the words:

“Decides to establish an open-ended working group to consider the
objectives and agenda, including the establishment of the preparatory
committee”,

were replaced by the words:

“Decides to establish an open-ended working group, working on the basis
of consensus, to consider the objectives and agenda, including the possible
establishment of the preparatory committee”;

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the words “including substantive
recommendations” were replaced by the words “including possible substantive
recommendations”;

(c) In operative paragraph 3, the words “, within existing resources,” were
inserted before the words “to provide”.

17. The Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the conference-servicing
implications of the draft resolution.



10

A/57/510

18. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.8/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution D).

5. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.9

19. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of South Africa, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a draft resolution entitled
“Measures to uphold the authority of the 1925 Geneva Protocol” (A/C.1/57/L.9).

20. At its 18th meeting, on 22 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.9 by a recorded vote of 140 to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 90,
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows:3

In favour:
Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia.

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
Israel, United States of America.

6. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.10

21. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of South Africa, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a draft resolution entitled

__________________
3 The delegations of El Salvador and Zambia subsequently indicated that, had they been present,

they would have voted in favour.



11

A/57/510

“Promotion of multilateralism in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation”
(A/C.1/57/L.10).

22. At its 21st meeting, on 25 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.10 by a recorded vote of 100 to 11, with 44 abstentions (see para. 90,
draft resolution F). The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic., Ecuador, Egypt,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Bulgaria, Germany, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

Abstaining:
Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, Vanuatu, Yugoslavia.

7. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.12

23. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of South Africa , on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a draft resolution entitled
“Observance of environmental norms in the drafting and implementation of
agreements on disarmament and arms control” (A/C.1/57/L.12).

24. At its 19th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.12 by a recorded vote of 153 to none, with 4 abstentions (see para. 90,
draft resolution G). The voting was as follows:



12

A/57/510

In favour:
Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
France, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

8. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.14

25. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of Iraq introduced a
draft resolution entitled “Effects of the use of depleted uranium in armaments”
(A/C.1/57/L.14), which read:

“The General Assembly,

“Reaffirming the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament
and the necessity for Member States to take concrete steps to strengthen that
role,

“Recalling the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, particularly paragraph 77 thereof, which
calls for effective measures to avert the danger of new types of weapons of
mass destruction and stresses the need to pursue efforts aimed at the
prohibition of such new types and new systems of weapons of mass
destruction,



13

A/57/510

“Recalling also its previous resolutions on the prohibition of the
development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction
and new systems of such weapons, the most recent of which was its resolution
54/44,

“Taking into account the facts that have come to light on the use of
depleted uranium shells in military operations during recent years, inasmuch as
such ammunition, when used, releases radioactive particles and chemical dust
that are spread through the air over large areas and contaminate animal and
plant life and the soil,

“1. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of States and
relevant organizations on all aspects of the effects of the use of depleted
uranium in armaments and to submit a report thereon to the General Assembly
at its fifty-eighth session;

“2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth
session an item entitled ‘Effects of the use of depleted uranium in
armaments’.”

26. At its 21st meeting, on 25 October, the Committee rejected draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.14 by a recorded vote of 59 to 35, with 56 abstentions. The voting was
as follows:

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Ghana,
Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Jordan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritius, Morocco,
Myanmar, Oman, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sudan,
Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uzbekistan, Yugoslavia.

Abstaining:
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Dominican Republic, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Grenada, Guinea, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kyrgyzstan, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Swaziland,



14

A/57/510

Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu.

9. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.17

27. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of South Africa, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, introduced a draft resolution entitled
“Relationship between disarmament and development” (A/C.1/57/L.17).

28. The Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the financial implications
of the draft resolution.

29. At its 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.17 by a recorded vote of 156 to 1, with 4 abstentions (see para. 90, draft
resolution H). The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against:
United States of America.

Abstaining:
France, Israel, Monaco, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.



15

A/57/510

10. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.18 and Rev.1

30. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of the Netherlands
introduced a draft resolution entitled “National legislation on transfer of arms,
military equipment and dual-use goods and technology” (A/C.1/57/L.18).

31. On 22 October, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/57/L.18/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsor of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.18,
which contained the following changes:

(a) A new second preambular paragraph was added, reading:

“Recalling that the States parties to the international disarmament and
non-proliferation treaties have undertaken, inter alia, both to control transfers
that could contribute to proliferation activities and to facilitate the fullest
possible exchange of materials, equipment and technological information for
peaceful purposes, in accordance with the provisions of those treaties”;

(b) A new fifth preambular paragraph was added, reading:

“Reaffirming the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence in
accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations”;

(c) Operative paragraph 1, which read:

“1. Invites Member States to enact or improve national legislation,
regulations and procedures to exercise effective control over the transfer of
arms, military equipment and dual-use goods and technology, taking into
account commitments under international treaties”,

was replaced by:

“1. Invites Member States that are in a position to do so to enact or
improve national legislation, regulations and procedures to exercise effective
control over the transfer of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods and
technology, while ensuring that such legislation, regulations and procedures
are consistent with the obligations of States parties under international
treaties”;

(d) In operative paragraph 2, the words “on a voluntary basis” were inserted
after the words “to provide”.

32. At its 21st meeting, on 25 October, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.18/Rev.1 as follows:

(a) The words “inter alia, both to control transfers that could contribute to
proliferation activities and” in the second preambular paragraph were adopted by a
recorded vote of 117 to none, with 31 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,



16

A/57/510

Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Yemen.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.18/Rev.1, as a whole, was adopted by a
recorded vote of 160 to none (see para. 90, draft resolution I). The voting was as
follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and



17

A/57/510

Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zambia.

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
None.

11. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.21 and Rev.1

33. At the 15th meeting, on 17 October, the representative of Mongolia introduced
a draft resolution entitled “Mongolia’s international security and nuclear-weapon-
free status” (A/C.1/57/L.21).

34. On 23 October, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/57/L.21/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsor of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.21,
which contained the following changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 3, which read:

“3. Welcomes the consultations of the five nuclear-weapon States with
Mongolia on the measures to be taken to institutionalize the latter’s status at
the international level”,

was deleted;

(b) Operative paragraph 4 was renumbered 3 and a new operative paragraph
4 was added, reading:

“4. Welcomes the efforts made by Member States to cooperate with
Mongolia in implementing resolution 55/33  S, as well as the progress made in
consolidating Mongolia’s international security”.

35. At its 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.21/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution J).

12. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.23 and Rev.1

36. At the 11th meeting, on 14 October, the representative of the United States of
America, on behalf of the Russian Federation and the United States of America,
introduced a draft resolution entitled “Bilateral strategic nuclear arms reductions and
the new strategic framework” (A/C.1/57/L.23).

37. On 21 October the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/57/L.23/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.23,
in which the words “Calls upon all countries” were replaced by the words “Invites
all countries, as appropriate” in operative paragraph 5.

38. At its 20th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.23/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution K).

13. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.24 and Rev.1

39. On 10 October, the representative of Uzbekistan, on behalf of Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, submitted a draft resolution



18

A/57/510

entitled “Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia”
(A/C.1/57/L.24).

40. At the 19th meeting, on 23 October, the representative of Uzbekistan, on
behalf of the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.24, introduced a revised draft
resolution (A/C.1/57/L.24/Rev.1), which contained the following changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 2, which read:

“2. Takes note of the completion of the elaboration by all five Central
Asian States of the legal basis for the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in Central Asia”,

was replaced by:

“2. Takes note of the elaboration by experts of all five Central Asian
States at the meeting held at Samarkand, from 25 to 27 September 2002, of a
draft treaty and its protocol for the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in Central Asia”;

(b) A new operative paragraph 3 was added, reading:

“3. Invites all five Central Asian States to continue consulting with the
five nuclear-weapon States on the draft treaty and its protocol for the
establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia, in conformity
with the 1999 Disarmament Commission agreed guidelines for the
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones”,

and former operative paragraph 3 was renumbered 4;

(c) Former operative paragraph 4, which read:

“4. Invites all five Central Asian States to continue their dialogue with
the five nuclear-weapon States on the question of the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia”,

was deleted;

(d) A new operative paragraph 5 was added, reading:

“5. Requests the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to
continue to provide assistance to the five Central Asian States in their further
work for the early establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central
Asia”,

and former operative paragraph 5 was renumbered 6.

41. At its 21st meeting, on 25 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.24/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution L).

14. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.25

42. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of Mali, on behalf of
Belgium, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, the
Central African Republic, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Denmark, Finland, France,
Gabon, the Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea Bissau,
Haiti, Ireland, Italy, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, the Netherlands, the
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain, Sweden,



19

A/57/510

Togo and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Assistance to States for
curbing the illicit traffic in small arms and collecting them” (A/C.1/57/L.25).
Subsequently, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Ethiopia, Japan, Malta, Monaco,
Mozambique, Nauru, Slovenia, Uganda, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and Zambia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

43. At its 18th meeting, on 22 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.25 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution M).

15. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.26 and Rev.1, 2 and 3 and amendments contained in
document A/C.1/57/L.60

44. On 10 October, the Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled
“Multilateral cooperation in disarmament and non-proliferation” (A/C.1/57/L.26),
submitted by the Chairman, which read:

“The General Assembly,

“Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations,

“Noting that the United Nations Millennium Declaration stated that
responsibility for managing threats to international peace and security must be
shared among the nations of the world and should be exercised multilaterally,

“Recalling that the report of the Secretary-General entitled ‘Road map
towards the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration’,
highlighted the important contributions of disarmament, arms control and the
rule of law in advancing its goals,

“Emphasizing that disarmament and non-proliferation are essential for
the maintenance of international peace and security,

“Bearing in mind that in his report entitled ‘Strengthening of the United
Nations: an agenda for further change’, the Secretary-General stressed that the
United Nations must keep its focus on ‘doing what matters’, and emphasized
that the need for an effective multilateral institution dedicated to the service of
humanity has never been more acutely felt,

“Recalling paragraph 1 of General Assembly resolution 56/24 T of
29 November 2001,

“Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General’s Policy Working
Group on the United Nations and Terrorism, which found that United Nations
activities in the field of disarmament must gain renewed relevance given
concerns that terrorists may seek access to weapons of mass destruction or
related technologies,

“Recalling that the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly on disarmament in 1978, stated that the international
machinery for disarmament should be utilized more effectively,

“Determined to build a common response to global threats in the area of
disarmament and non-proliferation,



20

A/57/510

“1. Stresses the urgent need for renewed efforts by all Member States to
use the existing multilateral disarmament machinery to promote and to achieve
the goals of disarmament and non-proliferation;

“2. Encourages further efforts by Member States to ensure that the
United Nations Disarmament Commission meets in substantive session in 2003
and that the Conference on Disarmament reaches agreement on a substantive
programme of work at the earliest possible time;

“3. Urges all Member States to reaffirm their determination to comply
with their respective commitments with respect to disarmament and non-
proliferation, especially with respect to weapons of mass destruction;

“4. Welcomes the Secretary-General’s efforts to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of the functioning of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament and non-proliferation.”

45. On 18 October, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution entitled
“Disarmament, non-proliferation and international peace and security”
(A/C.1/57/L.26/Rev.1), submitted by the Chairman, which read:

“The General Assembly,

“Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter, in particular the
purpose of the United Nations, to maintain international peace and security,

“Noting that the heads of State and Government resolved in the United
Nations Millennium Declaration to strengthen respect for the rule of law in
international as in national affairs, and to strive for the elimination of weapons
of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons, and to keep all options open
for achieving this aim,

“Bearing in mind that, in his report entitled Strengthening of the United
Nations: an agenda for further change, the Secretary-General stated that the
United Nations must align its activities with the priorities defined by the
Millennium Declaration,

“Recalling that the report of the Secretary-General entitled ‘Road map
towards the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration’,
highlighted the important contributions, inter alia, of disarmament, arms
control and the rule of law in advancing its goals,

“Convinced that full compliance with all disarmament and non-
proliferation agreements and their verification measures by States parties is
essential for the maintenance of international peace and security, and
reaffirming the efforts of the United Nations in that regard,

“Emphasizing that additional progress is urgently needed in the area of
disarmament and non-proliferation in order to help maintain international
peace and security and to contribute to global efforts against terrorism,

“Determined to build a common response to global threats in the area of
disarmament and non-proliferation,

“1. Reaffirms the urgent need to promote and to achieve the goals of
disarmament and non-proliferation;



21

A/57/510

“2. Stresses the need for all States parties to disarmament and non-
proliferation agreements to comply in full with all the provisions of such
agreements, in the interest of international peace and security;

“3. Emphasizes the necessity to promote the adoption, universalization
and, where necessary, strengthening of treaties and other international
instruments in the field of disarmament, arms limitation and non-proliferation;

“4. Reaffirms that progress is urgently needed in the areas of
disarmament and non-proliferation in order to help maintain international
peace and security and to contribute to global efforts against terrorism;

“5. Urges Member States to actively contribute to the substantive
session of the United Nations Disarmament Commission in 2003;

“6. Encourages additional efforts by Member States to ensure that the
Conference on Disarmament reaches agreement on a substantive programme of
work at the earliest possible time;

“7. Welcomes the Secretary-General’s efforts to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of the functioning of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament and non-proliferation.”

46. On 25 October, the Committee had before it a second revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/57/L.26/Rev.2), submitted by the Chairman, which contained the following
changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 2 was renumbered 4;

(b) In operative paragraph 3 (now renumbered 2), the word
“, universalization” was deleted after the word “adoption”;

(c) A new operative paragraph 3 was added, reading:

“3. Reaffirms the value of multilateralism in negotiations in the area of
disarmament and non-proliferation with a view to maintaining and
strengthening global norms and enlarging their scope”,

and the remaining paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

47. On 28 October, the Committee had before it a third revised text
(A/C.1/57/L.26/Rev.3), submitted by the Chairman, which contained the following
changes:

(a) Operative paragraph 2, which read:

“2. Emphasizes the necessity to promote the adoption and, where
necessary, strengthening of multilateral treaties and other international
instruments in the field of disarmament, arms limitation and non-
proliferation”,

was replaced by:

“2. Emphasizes the necessity for States parties to pursue additional
cooperative measures, as appropriate, that can strengthen comprehensive
multilateral treaties in the field of disarmament”;

(b) In operative paragraph 3 (see para. 46 (c) above), the words “global
norms” were replaced by the words “universal norms”.



22

A/57/510

48. At the 23rd meeting, on 29 October, the representatives of Cuba and the
Islamic Republic of Iran submitted amendments to draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.26/Rev.3 (A/C.1/57/L.60), by which:

(a) In operative paragraph 3, the words “the value of multilateralism” would
be replaced by the words “multilateralism as the core principle”;

(b) A new operative paragraph 3 bis would be added, reading:

“3 bis. Reaffirms further multilateralism as the core principle in resolving
disarmament and non-proliferation concerns”.

49. At the same meeting, the Chairman of the Committee withdrew draft
resolution A/C.1/57/L.26/Rev.3.

50. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Cuba, on behalf also of the
Islamic Republic of Iran, withdrew the amendments to draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.26/Rev.3 contained in document A/C.1/57/L.60.

16. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.32

51. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of the Islamic Republic
of Iran introduced a draft resolution entitled “Missiles” (A/C.1/57/L.32).
Subsequently, Egypt and Indonesia joined in sponsoring the draft.

52. The Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the conference-servicing
implications of the draft resolution.

53. At its 20th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.32 by a recorded vote of 90 to 2, with 57 abstentions (see para. 90, draft
resolution N). The voting was as follows:4

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South
Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen.

Against:
Israel, United States of America.

__________________
4 The delegation of Malawi subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted

in favour.



23

A/57/510

Abstaining:
Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Belgium, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay, Yugoslavia.

17. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.33

54. At the 13th meeting, on 16 October, the representative of Japan, on behalf of
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Colombia, the Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eritrea, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Latvia, Liberia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zimbabwe,
introduced a draft resolution entitled “The illicit trade in small arms and light
weapons in all its aspects” (A/C.1/57/L.33). Subsequently, Cape Verde, Chile,
Djibouti, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Mongolia and
Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

55. At its 18th meeting, on 22 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.33 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution O).

18. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.34

56. At the 11th meeting, on 14 October, the representative of Brazil, on behalf of
Angola, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde,
Colombia, the Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Fiji, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan, Liberia, Madagascar, Mexico,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nauru, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Samoa, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand, Tonga, the United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela and Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Nuclear-
weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas” (A/C.1/57/L.34).
Subsequently, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chad, Chile, Djibouti,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Honduras, Jamaica, Kenya, Papua New Guinea, Senegal,



24

A/57/510

Solomon Islands, the Sudan, Trinidad and Tobago and Tuvalu joined in sponsoring
the draft resolution.

57. At its 17th meeting, on 21 October, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.34 as follows:

(a) The last three words of operative paragraph 3 were adopted by a recorded
vote of 141 to 2, with 8 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Romania, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against:
India, Pakistan.

Abstaining:
Cuba, France, Israel, Mauritius, Myanmar, Russian Federation, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

(b) Operative paragraph 3, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded vote of
145 to 1, with 8 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,



25

A/57/510

Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against:
India.

Abstaining:
France, Israel, Mauritius, Myanmar, Pakistan, Russian Federation, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

(c) Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.34, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 148 to 3, with 4 abstentions (see para. 90, draft resolution P). The voting was
as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.



26

A/57/510

Against:
France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America.

Abstaining:
India, Israel, Russian Federation, Spain.

19. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.36

58. At the 13th meeting, on 16 October, the representative of Belgium, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Chad, Chile, Colombia, the Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, France, Gabon, the Gambia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Malawi, Mali, Malta,
Mexico, Monaco, Mozambique, Namibia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
the Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, San Marino,
Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, the United Republic of Tanzania, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution entitled
“Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling,
Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction”
(A/C.1/57/L.36). Subsequently, Albania, the Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana,
Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, the Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial
Guinea, Fiji, Guinea-Bissau, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Nauru, Papua New
Guinea, Qatar, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, the Sudan, Suriname, Timor-Leste,
Tuvalu and Vanuatu joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

59. The Secretary drew the attention of the Committee to a note by the Secretariat
(A/C.1/57/L.58) concerning the responsibilities entrusted to the Secretary-General
under the draft resolution.

60. At its 20th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.36 by a recorded vote of 128 to none, with 20 abstentions (see para. 90,
draft resolution Q). The voting was as follows:5

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica,

__________________
5 The delegation of Malawi subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted

in favour.



27

A/57/510

Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
Azerbaijan, China, Cuba, Egypt, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Israel,
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco,
Myanmar, Pakistan, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Syrian Arab
Republic, United States of America, Viet Nam.

20. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.37

61. At the 14th meeting, on 17 October, the representative of the Netherlands, on
behalf of Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, the Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Monaco, Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nauru, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain,
Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United Republic of Tanzania, the United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia and Zambia, introduced a draft
resolution entitled “Transparency in armaments” (A/C.1/57/L.37). Subsequently,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Chile, El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Ghana, Israel,
Liechtenstein, the Niger, Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

62. At its 19th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.37 as follows:



28

A/57/510

(a) Operative paragraph 4 (b) was adopted by a recorded vote of 134 to 2,
with 17 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El
Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico,
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
Egypt, Syrian Arab Republic.

Abstaining:
Algeria, China, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania,
Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Tunisia, United Arab
Emirates, Yemen.

(b) Operative paragraph 6 was adopted by a recorded vote of 134 to none,
with 20 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El
Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,



29

A/57/510

Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
Algeria, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Mauritania, Mexico, Myanmar, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen.

(c) Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.37, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 132 to none, with 23 abstentions (see para. 90, draft resolution R). The
voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El
Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Monaco,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
None.

Abstaining:
Algeria, Bahrain, China, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen.



30

A/57/510

21. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.39

63. At the 14th meeting, on 17 October, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Sri Lanka,
the Sudan and Turkey, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Regional disarmament”
(A/C.1/57/L.39). Subsequently, Georgia and Saudi Arabia joined in sponsoring the
draft resolution.

64. At its 18th meeting, on 22 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.39 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution S).

22. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.41

65. At the 13th meeting, on 16 October, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf
of Bangladesh, Belarus, Germany, Italy, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru and Ukraine,
introduced a draft resolution entitled “Conventional arms control at the regional and
subregional levels” (A/C.1/57/L.41). Subsequently, Georgia and Spain joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

66. At its 18th meeting, on 22 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.41 by a recorded vote of 149 to 1, with 1 abstention (see para. 90, draft
resolution T). The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against:
India.

Abstaining:
Bhutan.



31

A/57/510

23. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.42

67. At the 11th meeting, on 14 October, the representative of Japan, on behalf of
Australia and Japan, introduced a draft resolution entitled “A path to the total
elimination of nuclear weapons” (A/C.1/57/L.42). Subsequently, Bangladesh, Côte
d’Ivoire, Honduras, Italy, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea and Ukraine joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

68. At its 20th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.42 by a recorded vote of 136 to 2, with 13 abstentions (see para. 90,
draft resolution U). The voting was as follows:6

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
India, United States of America.

Abstaining:
Brazil, China, Cuba, Egypt, Ireland, Israel, Mauritius, Mexico, Myanmar, New
Zealand, Pakistan, South Africa, Sweden.

24. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.43

69. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of Myanmar, on behalf
of Algeria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Colombia, the Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, Ghana, Guinea,
Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, the Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Mozambique,

__________________
6 The delegation of Malawi subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted

in favour.



32

A/57/510

Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Panama, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Swaziland, Thailand,
Tonga, the United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Zambia and
Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Nuclear disarmament”
(A/C.1/57/L.43). Subsequently, El Salvador, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq,
Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands and Uganda joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

70. At its 20th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.43 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 10 was adopted by a recorded vote of 139 to 2, with
8 abstentions. The voting was as follows:7

In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
India, Israel.

Abstaining:
France, Georgia, Monaco, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Ukraine, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.43, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 91 to 40, with 19 abstentions (see para. 90, draft resolution V). The voting
was as follows:8

__________________
7 The delegation of Malawi subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted

in favour of operative paragraph 10.
8 The delegation of Malawi subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have voted

in favour of the resolution as a whole.



33

A/57/510

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Against:
Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Yugoslavia.

Abstaining:
Argentina, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Cyprus, Georgia, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Pakistan, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, Sweden, Ukraine.

25. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.44

71. At the 11th meeting, on 14 October, the representative of Canada, on behalf of
Algeria, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Kenya, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali, Malta,
Monaco, Morocco, Myanmar, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian Federation, San Marino,
Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Zambia, introduced a
draft resolution entitled “The Conference on Disarmament decision (CD/1547) of 11
August 1998 to establish, under item 1 of its agenda entitled ‘Cessation of the
nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament’, an ad hoc committee to negotiate, on
the basis of the report of the Special Coordinator (CD/1299) and the mandate
contained therein, a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and
effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear
weapons or other nuclear explosive devices” (A/C.1/57/L.44). Subsequently,
Argentina, Bangladesh, Cyprus, Honduras, Japan, Nauru, Senegal, Solomon Islands
and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.



34

A/57/510

72. At its 17th meeting, on 21 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.44 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution W).

26. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.45

73. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of Germany, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, the Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Germany, Georgia, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Mali, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Monaco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
the Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the
Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, San
Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Republic of Tanzania, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution entitled
“Consolidation of peace through practical disarmament measures” (A/C.1/57/L.45).
Subsequently, El Salvador, Israel, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, Togo, Turkey,
Uganda and Ukraine joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

74. At its 20th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.45 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution X).

27. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.48

75. At the 15th meeting, on 17 October, the representative of Poland, on behalf of
Canada and Poland, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Implementation of the
Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use
of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction” (A/C.1/57/L.48).

76. At its 18th meeting, on 22 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.48 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution Y).

28. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.49 and Rev.1

77. On 10 October, the Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled
“Terrorism and weapons of mass destruction” (A/C.1/57/L.49), submitted by
Afghanistan, Bhutan, Fiji, India, the Marshall Islands, Nauru, Sri Lanka and Tuvalu,
which read:

“The General Assembly,

“Recognizing the determination of the international community to combat
terrorism, as evident in relevant General Assembly and Security Council
resolutions,



35

A/57/510

“Deeply concerned about the evidence of the growing risk of linkages
between terrorism and weapons of mass destruction,

“Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General on the deliberations of
the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, which considered in-depth issues
related to weapons of mass destruction and terrorism,

“Taking note of International Atomic Energy Agency General Conference
resolution GC(46)/RES/13 and the setting up of an Advisory Group on Nuclear
Security in the Agency to advise the Director General on the Agency’s
activities relating to preventing, detecting and responding to terrorist or other
malicious acts involving nuclear and other radioactive materials and nuclear
facilities,

“Taking note of the report of the Policy Working Group on the United
Nations and Terrorism,

“Concerned that terrorists may seek to acquire weapons of mass
destruction,

“Mindful of the urgent need to address this threat to humanity in the
United Nations framework,

“1. Requests the Secretary-General to convene a panel of governmental
experts, to be established in 2003 on the basis of equitable geographical
distribution, to undertake a study on the issues related to terrorism and
weapons of mass destruction, within available resources and with any other
assistance provided by States in a position to do so, and to submit the study to
the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;

“2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth
session the item entitled ‘Terrorism and weapons of mass destruction’.”

78. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of India, on behalf of
the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.49 and Georgia, Mauritius, Papua New
Guinea and Solomon Islands, introduced a revised draft resolution entitled
“Measures to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction”
(A/C.1/57/L.49/Rev.1). Subsequently, Colombia and Nepal joined in sponsoring the
draft resolution.

79. At its 21st meeting, on 25 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.49/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution Z).

29. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.52

80. At the 15th meeting, on 17 October, the representative of India, on behalf of
Bhutan, Cuba, Haiti, India, Jordan, Kenya, Lesotho, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, the Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Namibia, Nauru, the Sudan, Tuvalu
and Zambia, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Reducing nuclear danger”
(A/C.1/57/L.52). Subsequently, Cambodia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea and
Solomon Islands joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

81. At its 17th meeting, on 21 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.52 by a recorded vote of 96 to 45, with 15 abstentions (see para. 90,
draft resolution AA). The voting was as follows:



36

A/57/510

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Yugoslavia.

Abstaining:
Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Brazil, China, Georgia, Israel, Japan,
Kazakhstan, Paraguay, Republic of Korea, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda,
Ukraine.

30. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.53

82. At the 12th meeting, on 15 October, the representative of Malaysia, on behalf
of Algeria, Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cambodia, Colombia, the Congo,
Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guyana, Indonesia, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Mali, Mexico, Mongolia, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Thailand, Tonga, Uruguay, Viet
Nam and Zambia, introduced a draft resolution entitled  “Follow-up to the advisory
opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Legality of the Threat or Use of
Nuclear Weapons” (A/C.1/57/L. 53). Subsequently, Bangladesh, Cuba, El Salvador,
India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Papua New Guinea and Yemen joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

83. At its 17th meeting, on 21 October, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.53 as follows:



37

A/57/510

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was adopted by a recorded vote of 146 to 5, with 5
abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against:
Afghanistan, France, Israel, Russian Federation, United States of America.

Abstaining:
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Republic of Moldova, Uganda, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.53, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 106 to 30, with 22 abstentions (see para. 90, draft resolution BB). The voting
was as follows:

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,



38

A/57/510

Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark,
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining:
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Japan, Kazakhstan,
Liechtenstein, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Switzerland, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yugoslavia.

31. Draft resolution A/C.1/57/L.54

84. At the 16th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of the United States of
America introduced a draft resolution entitled “Compliance with arms limitation and
disarmament and non-proliferation agreements” (A/C.1/57/L.54). Subsequently,
Afghanistan, Australia, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia,
the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Malawi, the
Marshall Islands, Monaco, Mongolia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and Zambia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

85. At its 19th meeting, on 23 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/57/L.54 without a vote (see para. 90, draft resolution CC).

B. Draft decision A/C.1/57/L.19

86. At the 12th meeting, on 15 October, the representative of Mexico introduced a
draft decision entitled “United Nations conference to identify ways of eliminating
nuclear dangers in the context of nuclear disarmament” (A/C.1/57/L.19).

87. At its 17th meeting, on 21 October, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.1/56/L.19 by a recorded vote of 111 to 7, with 37 abstentions (see para. 91).
The voting was as follows:

In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait,



39

A/57/510

Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
France, Germany, Israel, Monaco, Poland, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Yugoslavia.

C. Notification of nuclear tests

88. No proposal was submitted and no action was taken under sub-item (a).

D. Preservation of and compliance with the Treaty on the Limitation
of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems

89. No proposal was submitted and no action was taken under sub-item (f).

III. Recommendations of the First Committee

90. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

General and complete disarmament

A
Reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 55/33 D of 20 November 2000,

Stressing the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon States, in the
Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to accomplish the total elimination of their



40

A/57/510

nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear disarmament, a goal to which all States parties to
the Treaty are committed under its article VI,9

Recognizing that disarmament and non-proliferation are essential for the
maintenance of international peace and security,

Reaffirming the necessity of strict compliance by all parties with their
obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons10 and the
necessity of upholding their commitments in associated decisions and final
documents agreed upon at the 2000 and 1995 Review Conferences,

Noting the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued at The Hague on 8 July
1996,11

Noting the importance attached to the issue of reducing non-strategic nuclear
weapons by the Secretary-General in his report to the Millennium Assembly,12

Stressing the commitment made in the Final Document of the 2000 Review
Conference to the further reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons,13

Concerned that the total number of nuclear weapons deployed and in stockpile
still amounts to many thousands,

Reiterating that it is the particular responsibility of the nuclear-weapon States
for transparent, verifiable and irreversible reductions of nuclear weapons, leading to
nuclear disarmament,

Emphasizing that further reductions of non-strategic nuclear weapons should
be accorded priority and be carried out in a comprehensive manner,

1. Agrees that reductions and elimination of non-strategic nuclear weapons
should be included as an integral part of the nuclear-arms reduction and
disarmament process;

2. Agrees also that reductions of non-strategic nuclear weapons should be
carried out in a transparent, verifiable and irreversible manner;

3. Agrees further on the importance of preserving, reaffirming,
implementing and building upon the 1991 and 1992 Presidential Nuclear Initiatives
of the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics/Russian
Federation on non-strategic nuclear weapons;

__________________
9 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I, section entitled
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15:6.

10 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.
11 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion,

I.C.J. Reports 1996, p. 226.
12 See A/54/2000.
13 See 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I, section entitled
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15:9.



41

A/57/510

4. Calls upon the Russian Federation and the United States of America to
formalize their Presidential Nuclear Initiatives into legal instruments and to initiate
negotiations on further effectively verifiable reductions of their non-strategic
nuclear weapons;

5. Stresses the importance of special security and physical protection
measures for the transport and storage of non-strategic nuclear weapons, and calls
upon all nuclear-weapon States in possession of such weapons to take the necessary
steps in this regard;

6. Calls for further confidence-building and transparency measures to
reduce the threats posed by non-strategic nuclear weapons;

7. Calls also for concrete agreed measures to reduce further the operational
status of non-strategic nuclear weapons systems;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session an
item entitled “Reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons”.

B
Towards a nuclear-weapon-free world: the need for a new agenda

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 53/77 Y of 4 December 1998, 54/54 G of 1 December
1999 and 55/33 C of 20 November 2000,

Convinced that the existence of nuclear weapons is a threat to the survival of
humanity,

Declaring that the participation of the international community as a whole is
central to the maintenance and enhancement of international peace and stability, and
that international security is a collective concern requiring collective engagement,

Declaring also that internationally negotiated treaties in the field of
disarmament have made a fundamental contribution to international peace and
security, and that unilateral and bilateral nuclear disarmament measures complement
the treaty-based multilateral approach towards nuclear disarmament,

Noting the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued at The Hague on 8 July
1996,14

Declaring that any presumption of the indefinite possession of nuclear
weapons by the nuclear-weapon States is incompatible with the integrity and
sustainability of the nuclear non-proliferation regime and with the broader goal of
the maintenance of international peace and security,

Declaring also that it is essential that the fundamental principles of
transparency, verification and irreversibility should apply to all nuclear disarmament
measures,

__________________
14 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion,

I.C.J. Reports 1996, p. 226.



42

A/57/510

Convinced that the further reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons
constitutes an integral part of the nuclear arms reduction and disarmament process,

Declaring that each article of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons15 is binding on the respective States parties at all times and in all
circumstances and that it is imperative that all States parties be held fully
accountable with respect to the strict compliance with their obligations under the
Treaty, and that the undertakings therein on nuclear disarmament have been given
and that their implementation remains the imperative,

Expressing its deep concern that, to date, there have been few advances in the
implementation of the thirteen steps agreed to at the 2000 Review Conference of the
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,16

Stressing the importance of regular reporting in promoting confidence in the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,

Expressing its deep concern at the continued failure of the Conference on
Disarmament to deal with nuclear disarmament and to resume negotiations on a non-
discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty
banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear
explosive devices,

Expressing grave concern that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty17
has not yet entered into force,

Expressing deep concern that the total number of nuclear weapons deployed
and stockpiled still amounts to thousands, and at the continuing possibility that
nuclear weapons could be used,

Acknowledging that reductions in the numbers of deployed strategic nuclear
warheads envisaged by the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions (“the Moscow
Treaty”)18 represent a positive step in the process of nuclear de-escalation between
the United States of America and the Russian Federation, while stressing that
reductions in deployments and in operational status cannot substitute for irreversible
cuts in, and the total elimination of, nuclear weapons,

Noting that, despite these bilateral achievements, there is no sign of efforts
involving all of the five nuclear-weapon States in the process leading to the total
elimination of nuclear weapons,

Expressing its deep concern that emerging approaches to the broader role of
nuclear weapons as part of security strategies could lead to the development of new
types, and rationalizations for the use, of nuclear weapons,

Expressing concern that the development of missile defences could impact
negatively on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and lead to a new arms
race on earth and in outer space,

__________________
15 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.
16 See 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I, section entitled
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15.

17 See resolution 50/245.
18 See CD/1674.



43

A/57/510

Stressing that no steps should be taken which would lead to the weaponization
of outer space,

Expressing its deep concern at the continued retention of the nuclear-weapons
option by those three States that have not yet acceded to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and operate unsafeguarded nuclear facilities, in
particular given the effects of regional volatility on international security, and in this
context, the continued regional tensions and deteriorating security situation in South
Asia and the Middle East,

Welcoming the announcement by Cuba of its intention to accede to the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to ratify the Treaty of
Tlatelolco,19

Welcoming also the conclusion of negotiations among the Central Asian States
on a treaty on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in that region, and
underlining the importance of its entry into force as soon as possible,

Welcoming further the progress in the further development of nuclear-weapon-
free zones in some regions and, in particular, the consolidation of that in the
southern hemisphere and adjacent areas,

Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration,20 in which the heads of
State and Government resolved to strive for the elimination of weapons of mass
destruction, in particular nuclear weapons, and to keep all options open for
achieving this aim, including the possibility of convening an international
conference to identify ways of eliminating nuclear dangers,

Taking into consideration the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon
States, in the Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to accomplish the total
elimination of their nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear disarmament, to which all the
States parties to the Treaty are committed under article VI of the Treaty,21

1. Reaffirms that any possibility that nuclear weapons could be used
represents a continued risk for humanity;

2. Calls upon all States to refrain from any action that could lead to a new
nuclear arms race or that could impact negatively on nuclear disarmament and non-
proliferation;

3. Also calls upon all States to observe international treaties in the field of
nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and to duly fulfil all obligations flowing
from those treaties;

4. Calls upon all States parties to pursue, with determination and with
continued vigour, the full and effective implementation of the substantial
agreements reached at the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the outcome of which provides the
requisite blueprint to achieve nuclear disarmament;

__________________
19 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.
20 Resolution 55/2.
21 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I, section entitled
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15:6.



44

A/57/510

5. Calls upon the nuclear-weapon States to respect fully their existing
commitments with regard to security assurances, pending the conclusion of
multilaterally negotiated legally binding security assurances to all non-nuclear-
weapon States parties, and agrees to prioritize this issue with a view to making
recommendations to the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;

6. Also calls upon the nuclear-weapon States to increase their transparency
and accountability with regard to their nuclear weapons arsenals and their
implementation of disarmament measures;

7. Reaffirms the necessity for the Preparatory Committee for the 2005
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons to consider regular reports to be submitted by all States parties on the
implementation of article VI of the Treaty15 as outlined in paragraph 15:12 of the
2000 Final Document,16 and on paragraph 4 (c) of decision 2 of the 1995 Review
and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty;22

8. Calls upon nuclear-weapon States to implement the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons commitments to apply the principle of
irreversibility by destroying their nuclear warheads in the context of strategic
nuclear reductions and avoid keeping them in a state that lends itself to their
possible redeployment;

9. Agrees on the importance and urgency of signatures and ratifications to
achieve the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty;17

10. Calls for the upholding and maintenance of the moratorium on nuclear-
weapon-test explosions or any other nuclear explosions pending the entry into force
of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty;

11. Underlines the urgency of the entry into force of the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty in the context of the progress in implementing the
international system to monitor nuclear weapons tests under the Treaty;

12. Agrees that the further reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons should
be accorded priority and that nuclear-weapon States must live up to their
commitments in this regard;

13. Agrees also that reductions of non-strategic nuclear weapons should be
carried out in a transparent and irreversible manner and that the reduction and
elimination of non-strategic nuclear weapons should be included in the overall arms
reductions negotiations. In this context, urgent action should be taken to achieve:

(a) Further reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons, based on unilateral
initiatives and as an integral part of the nuclear arms reduction and disarmament
process;

(b) Further confidence-building and transparency measures to reduce the
threats posed by non-strategic nuclear weapons;

(c) Concrete agreed measures to reduce further the operational status of
nuclear weapons systems;

__________________
22 See 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation

of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex.



45

A/57/510

(d) The formalizing of existing informal bilateral arrangements regarding
non-strategic nuclear reductions, such as the Bush-Gorbachev declarations of 1991,
into legally binding agreements;

14. Calls upon nuclear-weapon States to undertake the necessary steps
towards the seamless integration of all five nuclear-weapon States into a process
leading to the total elimination of nuclear weapons;

15. Agrees that the Conference on Disarmament should establish without
delay an ad hoc committee to deal with nuclear disarmament;

16. Agrees also that the Conference on Disarmament should resume
negotiations on a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively
verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or
other nuclear explosive devices, taking into consideration both nuclear disarmament
and nuclear non-proliferation objectives;

17. Agrees further that the Conference on Disarmament should complete the
examination and updating of the mandate on the prevention of an arms race in outer
space in all its aspects, as contained in its decision of 13 February 1992,23 and
re-establish an ad hoc committee as early as possible;

18. Calls upon those three States that are not yet parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and operate unsafeguarded nuclear facilities
to accede to the Treaty as non-nuclear-weapon States, promptly and without
condition, and to bring into force the required comprehensive safeguards
agreements, together with additional protocols, consistent with the Model Protocol
Additional to the Agreement(s) between State(s) and the International Atomic
Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards approved by the Board of
Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency on 15 May 1997,24 for
ensuring nuclear non-proliferation, and to reverse clearly and urgently any policies
to pursue any nuclear weapons development or deployment and refrain from any
action that could undermine regional and international peace and security and the
efforts of the international community towards nuclear disarmament and the
prevention of nuclear weapons proliferation;

19. Calls upon those States that have not yet done so to conclude full-scope
safeguards agreements with the International Atomic Energy Agency and to
conclude additional protocols to their safeguards agreements on the basis of the
Model Protocol;

20. Reaffirms the conviction that the establishment of internationally
recognized nuclear-weapon-free zones on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at
among the States of the region concerned enhances global and regional peace and
security, strengthens the nuclear non-proliferation regime and contributes towards
realizing the objective of nuclear disarmament, and supports proposals for the
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones where they do not yet exist, such as in
the Middle East and South Asia;

__________________
23 CD/1125.
24 International Atomic Energy Agency, INFCIRC/540 (Corrected).



46

A/57/510

21. Calls for the completion and implementation of the Trilateral Initiative
between the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Russian Federation and the
United States of America and for consideration to be given to the possible inclusion
of other nuclear-weapon States;

22. Calls upon all nuclear-weapon States to make arrangements for the
placing, as soon as practicable, of their fissile material no longer required for
military purposes under International Atomic Energy Agency or other relevant
international verification and to make arrangements for the disposition of such
material for peaceful purposes in order to ensure that such material remains
permanently outside military programmes;

23. Affirms that a nuclear-weapon-free world will ultimately require the
underpinning of a universal and multilaterally negotiated legally binding instrument
or a framework encompassing a mutually reinforcing set of instruments;

24. Acknowledges the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of resolution 55/33 C,25 and requests him, within existing resources, to prepare a
report on the implementation of the present resolution;

25. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Towards a nuclear-weapon-free world: the need for a new agenda”,
and to review the implementation of the present resolution at that session.

C
United Nations study on disarmament and
non-proliferation education

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 55/33 E of 20 November 2000,

Reaffirming the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament and
non-proliferation and the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps in
order to strengthen that role,

Welcoming the United Nations study on disarmament and non-proliferation
education, prepared by the Secretary-General with the assistance of governmental
experts, pursuant to the above-mentioned resolution, 26

Convinced that the need has never been greater for disarmament and non-
proliferation education, especially on weapons of mass destruction, but also in the
field of small arms and light weapons, terrorism and other challenges to
international security and the process of disarmament,

Recognizing the importance of the role of civil society, including non-
governmental organizations, in the promotion of disarmament and non-proliferation
education,

__________________
25 A/56/309.
26 A/57/124.



47

A/57/510

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for providing
Member States with the United Nations study on disarmament and non-proliferation
education,26 which contains a series of recommendations for immediate and long-
term implementation;

2. Conveys the recommendations for implementation, as appropriate, by
Member States, the United Nations and other international organizations, civil
society, non-governmental organizations and the media;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report reviewing the results
of the implementation of the recommendations and to submit it to the General
Assembly at its fifty-ninth session;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session an
item entitled “Disarmament and non-proliferation education”.

D
Convening of the fourth special session of the General Assembly
devoted to disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 49/75 I of 15 December 1994, 50/70 F of
12 December 1995, 51/45 C of 10 December 1996, 52/38 F of 9 December 1997,
53/77 AA of 4 December 1998, 54/54 U of 1 December 1999, 55/33 M of
20 November 2000 and 56/24 D of 29 November 2001,

Recalling also that, there being a consensus to do so in each case, three special
sessions of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament were held in 1978, 1982
and 1988, respectively,

Bearing in mind the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly,27 adopted by consensus at the first special session devoted to
disarmament, which included the Declaration, Programme of Action and Machinery
for Disarmament,

Bearing in mind also the objective of general and complete disarmament under
effective international control,

Taking note of paragraph 145 of the Final Document of the Twelfth Conference
of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Durban, South
Africa, from 29 August to 3 September 1998,28 which supported the convening of
the fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, which
would offer an opportunity to review, from a perspective more in tune with the
current international situation, the most critical aspects of the process of
disarmament and to mobilize the international community and public opinion in
favour of the elimination of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction and of
the control and reduction of conventional weapons,

__________________
27 Resolution S-10/2.
28 A/53/667-S/1998/1071, annex I.



48

A/57/510

Taking note also of the report of the Disarmament Commission on its 1999
substantive session29 and of the fact that no consensus was reached on the item
entitled “Fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament”,

Desiring to build upon the substantive exchange of views on the fourth special
session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament during the 1999
substantive session of the Disarmament Commission,

Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration, adopted by the heads of
State and Government during the United Nations Millennium Summit held in New
York from 6 to 8 September 2000,30 in which they resolved “to strive for the
elimination of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons, and to
keep all options open for achieving this aim, including the possibility of convening
an international conference to identify ways of eliminating nuclear dangers”,

Reiterating its conviction that a special session of the General Assembly
devoted to disarmament can set the future course of action in the field of
disarmament, arms control and related international security matters,

Emphasizing the importance of multilateralism in the process of disarmament,
arms control and related international security matters,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,31 regarding the views of
Member States on the objectives, agenda and timing of the fourth special session of
the General Assembly devoted to disarmament,

1. Decides to establish an open-ended working group, working on the basis
of consensus, to consider the objectives and agenda, including the possible
establishment of the preparatory committee, for the fourth special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament, taking note of the paper presented by
the Chairman of Working Group II during the 1999 substantive session of the
Disarmament Commission as well as the reports of the Secretary-General regarding
the views of Member States on the objectives, agenda and timing of the fourth
special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament;

2. Requests the open-ended Working Group to hold an organizational
session in order to set the date for its substantive sessions, and to submit a report on
its work, including possible substantive recommendations, before the end of the
fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to provide the
open-ended Working Group with the necessary assistance and services as may be
required to discharge its tasks;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Convening of the fourth special session of the General Assembly
devoted to disarmament”.

__________________
29 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/54/42).
30 See resolution 55/2.
31 A/57/120.



49

A/57/510

E
Measures to uphold the authority of the 1925 Geneva Protocol

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject, in particular resolution 55/33 J
of 20 November 2000,

Determined to act with a view to achieving effective progress towards general
and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control,

Recalling the long-standing determination of the international community to
achieve the effective prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and
use of chemical and biological weapons as well as the continuing support for
measures to uphold the authority of the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in
War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of
Warfare, signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925,32 as expressed by consensus in many
previous resolutions,

Emphasizing the necessity of easing international tension and strengthening
trust and confidence between States,

Welcoming the initiatives by some States Parties to withdraw their reservations
to the 1925 Geneva Protocol,

1. Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General;33

2. Renews its previous call to all States to observe strictly the principles and
objectives of the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating,
Poisonous or Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare, signed at
Geneva on 17 June 1925,32 and reaffirms the vital necessity of upholding its
provisions;

3. Calls upon those States that continue to maintain reservations to the 1925
Geneva Protocol to withdraw them;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
fifty-ninth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

F
Promotion of multilateralism in the area of disarmament and
non-proliferation

The General Assembly,

Determined to foster strict respect for the purposes and principles enshrined in
the Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling its resolution 56/24 T of 29 November 2001 on “Multilateral
cooperation in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation and global efforts
against terrorism” and other relevant resolutions,

__________________
32 League of Nations, Treaty Series, vol. XCIV (1929), 70.2138.
33 A/57/96.



50

A/57/510

Recalling also the purpose of the United Nations to maintain international
peace and security, and to that end: to take effective collective measures for the
prevention and removal of threats to the peace, and for the suppression of acts of
aggression or other breaches of the peace, and to bring about by peaceful means, and
in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, adjustment or
settlement of international disputes or situations which might lead to a breach of the
peace, as enshrined in the Charter,

Recalling further the United Nations Millennium Declaration, which states,
inter alia, that the responsibility for managing worldwide economic and social
development, as well as threats to international peace and security, must be shared
among the nations of the world and should be exercised multilaterally and that, as
the most universal and most representative organization in the world, the United
Nations must play the central role,34

Convinced that in the globalization era and with the information revolution,
arms regulation, non-proliferation and disarmament problems are more than ever the
concern of all countries in the world, which are affected one way or another by these
problems and, therefore, should have the possibility to participate in the negotiations
that arise to tackle them,

Bearing in mind the existence of a broad structure of disarmament and arms
regulation agreements resulting from non-discriminatory multilateral negotiations
with the participation of a large number of countries, regardless of their size and
power,

Aware of the need to advance further in the field of arms regulation, non-
proliferation and disarmament on the basis of universal, multilateral, non-
discriminatory negotiations with the goal of reaching general and complete
disarmament under strict international control,

Recognizing the complementarity of bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral
negotiations on disarmament,

Recognizing also that the proliferation and development of weapons of mass
destruction, including nuclear weapons, are among the most immediate threats to
international peace and security which need to be dealt with, with the highest
priority,

Considering that the multilateral disarmament agreements provide the
mechanism for States parties to consult one another and to cooperate in solving any
problems which may arise in relation to the objective of, or in the application of, the
provisions of the agreements and that such consultations and cooperation may also
be undertaken through appropriate international procedures within the framework of
the United Nations and in accordance with the Charter,

Stressing that international cooperation, peaceful settlement of disputes,
dialogue and confidence-building measures would contribute essentially to the
creation of multilateral and bilateral friendly relations among peoples and nations,

Being concerned at the continuous erosion of multilateralism in the field of
arms regulation, non-proliferation and disarmament, and recognizing that a resort to
unilateral actions by Member States in resolving their security concerns would

__________________
34 See resolution 55/2, para. 6.



51

A/57/510

jeopardize international peace and security and undermine confidence in the
international security system as well as the foundations of the United Nations itself,

Reaffirming the absolute validity of multilateral diplomacy in the field of
disarmament, and determined to promote multilateralism as an essential way to
develop arms regulation and disarmament negotiations,

1. Reaffirms multilateralism as the core principle in negotiations in the area
of disarmament and non-proliferation with a view to maintaining and strengthening
universal norms and enlarging their scope;

2. Also reaffirms multilateralism as the core principle in resolving
disarmament and non-proliferation concerns;

3. Urges the participation of all interested States in multilateral negotiations
on arms regulation, non-proliferation and disarmament in a non-discriminatory
manner;

4. Underlines the importance of preserving the existing agreements on arms
regulation and disarmament, which constitute an expression of the results of
international cooperation and multilateral negotiations in response to the challenges
facing mankind;

5. Calls once again upon all Member States to renew and fulfil their
individual and collective commitments to multilateral cooperation as an important
means of pursuing and achieving their common objectives in the area of
disarmament and non-proliferation;

6. Requests the States parties to the relevant instruments on weapons of
mass destruction to consult and cooperate among themselves in resolving their
concerns with regard to cases of non-compliance as well as on implementation, in
accordance with the procedures defined in those instruments, and to refrain from
resorting or threatening to resort to unilateral actions or directing unverified non-
compliance accusations against one another to resolve their concerns;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Member States on
the issue of the promotion of multilateralism in the area of disarmament and non-
proliferation and to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth
session;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session an
item entitled “Promotion of multilateralism in the area of disarmament and non-
proliferation”.

G
Observance of environmental norms in the drafting and
implementation of agreements on disarmament and arms control

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 50/70 M of 12 December 1995, 51/45 E of 10
December 1996, 52/38 E of 9 December 1997, 53/77 J of 4 December 1998, 54/54 S
of 1 December 1999, 55/33 K of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 F of 29 November
2001,



52

A/57/510

Emphasizing the importance of the observance of environmental norms in the
preparation and implementation of disarmament and arms limitation agreements,

Recognizing that it is necessary to take duly into account the agreements
adopted at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, as
well as prior relevant agreements, in the drafting and implementation of agreements
on disarmament and arms limitation,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,35

Mindful of the detrimental environmental effects of the use of nuclear
weapons,

1. Reaffirms that international disarmament forums should take fully into
account the relevant environmental norms in negotiating treaties and agreements on
disarmament and arms limitation and that all States, through their actions, should
contribute fully to ensuring compliance with the aforementioned norms in the
implementation of treaties and conventions to which they are parties;

2. Calls upon States to adopt unilateral, bilateral, regional and multilateral
measures so as to contribute to ensuring the application of scientific and
technological progress in the framework of international security, disarmament and
other related spheres, without detriment to the environment or to its effective
contribution to attaining sustainable development;

3. Welcomes the information provided by Member States on the
implementation of the measures they have adopted to promote the objectives
envisaged in the present resolution;35

4. Invites all Member States to communicate to the Secretary-General
information on the measures they have adopted to promote the objectives envisaged
in the present resolution, and requests the Secretary-General to submit a report
containing this information to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Observance of environmental norms in the drafting and
implementation of agreements on disarmament and arms control”.

H
Relationship between disarmament and development

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly concerning the relationship between disarmament and
development,36

Recalling also the adoption on 11 September 1987 of the Final Document of
the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and
Development,37

__________________
35 A/57/121 and Add.1 and 2.
36 Resolution S-10/2.
37 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8.



53

A/57/510

Recalling further its resolutions 49/75 J of 15 December 1994, 50/70 G of 12
December 1995, 51/45 D of 10 December 1996, 52/38 D of 9 December 1997, 53/77
K of 4 December 1998, 54/54 T of 1 December 1999, 55/33 L of 20 November 2000
and 56/24 E of 29 November 2001,

Bearing in mind the Final Document of the Twelfth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Durban, South Africa, from
29 August to 3 September 1998,38 and the Final Document of the Thirteenth
Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held in
Cartagena, Colombia, on 8 and 9 April 2000,39

Welcoming the different activities organized by the high-level Steering Group
on Disarmament and Development and the views and proposals received from
Governments on the issue, as contained in the report of the Secretary-General,40

Stressing the importance of the symbiotic relationship between disarmament
and development in current international relations, and concerned at increasing
global military expenditure, which could otherwise be spent on development needs,

Taking into account developments in the context of disarmament and
international security since the end of the cold war, as well as new perspectives and
goals on development issues emerging from, inter alia, the United Nations
Millennium Declaration,41 the Doha Ministerial Declaration of the World Trade
Organization, adopted on 14 November 2001,42 the Monterrey Consensus of the
International Conference on Financing for Development, adopted on 22 March
2002,43 and the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development and the Plan
of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, adopted on
4 September 2002,

Mindful of the changes in international relations that have taken place since the
adoption on 11 September 1987 of the Final Document of the International
Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development, including
the development agenda that has emerged over the past decade,

Bearing in mind the new challenges for the international community in the
field of development, poverty eradication and the elimination of the diseases that
afflict humanity,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General,40 submitted pursuant to
resolution 56/24 E, including its proposal to consider the establishment of a group of
governmental experts to undertake a review of the relationship between
disarmament and development in the current international context, as well as the
role of the Organization in this connection;

__________________
38 A/53/667-S/1998/1071, annex I.
39 A/54/917-S/2000/580, annex.
40 See A/57/167 and Add.1.
41 See resolution 55/2.
42 WT/MIN(01)/DEC/1.
43 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico,

18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1,
annex.



54

A/57/510

2. Requests the Secretary-General, within available financial resources and
with the assistance of a group of governmental experts to be established in 2003 on
the basis of equitable geographical distribution, while seeking the views of States, to
present for the consideration of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session a
report with recommendations for a reappraisal of the relationship between
disarmament and development in the current international context, as well as the
future role of the Organization in this connection;

3. Calls upon the high-level Steering Group on Disarmament and
Development to strengthen and enhance its programme of activities, in accordance
with the mandate contained in subparagraph (ix) b of paragraph 35 (c) of the action
programme adopted at the International Conference on the Relationship between
Disarmament and Development;37

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take action, through
appropriate organs and within available resources, for the implementation of the
action programme;

5. Urges the international community to devote part of the resources made
available by the implementation of disarmament and arms limitation agreements to
economic and social development, with a view to reducing the ever widening gap
between developed and developing countries;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Relationship between disarmament and development”.

I
National legislation on transfer of arms, military equipment and
dual-use goods and technology

The General Assembly,

Recognizing that disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation are essential
for the maintenance of international peace and security and that effective national
control over the transfer of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods and
technology is an important tool in achieving these objectives,

Recalling that the States parties to the international disarmament and non-
proliferation treaties have undertaken, inter alia, both to control transfers that could
contribute to proliferation activities and to facilitate the fullest possible exchange of
materials, equipment and technological information for peaceful purposes, in
accordance with the provisions of those treaties,

Considering that the exchange of national legislation, regulations and
procedures on the transfer of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods and
technology contributes to mutual understanding and confidence among Member
States,

Convinced that such an exchange would be beneficial to Member States that
are in the process of developing such legislation,

Reaffirming the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence in
accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations,



55

A/57/510

1. Invites Member States that are in a position to do so to enact or improve
national legislation, regulations and procedures to exercise effective control over the
transfer of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods and technology, while
ensuring that such legislation, regulations and procedures are consistent with the
obligations of States parties under international treaties;

2. Encourages Member States to provide, on a voluntary basis, information
to the Secretary-General on their national legislation, regulations and procedures on
the transfer of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods and technology, as well
as the changes therein, and requests the Secretary-General to make this information
accessible for Member States;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session an
item entitled “National legislation on transfer of arms, military equipment and dual-
use goods and technology”.

J
Mongolia’s international security and nuclear-weapon-free status

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 53/77 D of 4 December 1998 and 55/33 S of 20
November 2000,

Recalling also the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
as well as the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations,44

Bearing in mind its resolution 49/31 of 9 December 1994 on the protection and
security of small States,

Proceeding from the fact that nuclear-weapon-free status is one of the means
of ensuring the national security of States,

Convinced that the internationally recognized status of Mongolia will
contribute to enhancing stability and confidence-building in the region as well as
promote Mongolia’s security by strengthening its independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity, the inviolability of its borders and the preservation of its
ecological balance,

Taking note of the adoption by the Mongolian parliament of legislation45
defining and regulating its nuclear-weapon-free status as a concrete step towards
promoting the aims of nuclear non-proliferation,

Bearing in mind the joint statement of the five nuclear-weapon States on
security assurances to Mongolia in connection with its nuclear-weapon-free status46
as a contribution to implementing resolution 53/77 D as well as their commitment to
Mongolia to cooperate in the implementation of the resolution, in accordance with
the principles of the Charter,

__________________
44 Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.
45 A/55/56-S/2000/160.
46 A/55/530-S/2000/1052, annex.



56

A/57/510

Noting that the joint statement has been transmitted to the Security Council by
the five nuclear-weapon States,

Mindful that the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, at the Ministerial
Meeting of its Coordinating Bureau, held at Durban, South Africa on 29 April 2002,
has welcomed and expressed its support for the policy of Mongolia to
institutionalize its nuclear-weapon-free status as a concrete contribution to the
international efforts to strengthen the non-proliferation regime and enhance
predictability in north-east Asia,

Noting other measures taken to implement resolution 55/33 S at the national
and international levels,

Welcoming Mongolia’s active and positive role in developing peaceful,
friendly and mutually beneficial relations with the States of the region and other
States,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of resolution 55/33 S,47

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of resolution 55/33 S;47

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the efforts to
implement resolution 55/33 S;

3. Endorses and supports Mongolia’s good-neighbourly and balanced
relationship with its neighbours as an important element of strengthening regional
peace, security and stability;

4. Welcomes the efforts made by Member States to cooperate with Mongolia
in implementing resolution 55/33 S, as well as the progress made in consolidating
Mongolia’s international security;

5. Invites Member States to continue to cooperate with Mongolia in taking
the necessary measures to consolidate and strengthen Mongolia’s independence,
sovereignty and territorial integrity, the inviolability of its borders, its economic
security, its ecological balance and its nuclear-weapon-free status, as well as its
independent foreign policy;

6. Appeals to the Member States of the Asia and Pacific region to support
Mongolia’s efforts to join the relevant regional security and economic arrangements;

7. Requests the Secretary-General and relevant United Nations bodies to
continue to provide assistance to Mongolia in taking the necessary measures
mentioned in paragraph 5 above;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
fifty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session the
item entitled “Mongolia’s international security and nuclear-weapon-free status”.

__________________
47 A/57/159.



57

A/57/510

K
Bilateral strategic nuclear arms reductions and the new
strategic framework

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 53/77 Z of 4 December 1998 and other relevant
resolutions,

Welcoming the completion of strategic arms reductions codified in the Treaty
on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (START)48 by
Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the United States of
America,

Agreeing that new global challenges and threats require the building of a
qualitatively new foundation for strategic relations between the United States of
America and the Russian Federation,

Noting with satisfaction the building of the new strategic relationship between
the United States of America and the Russian Federation based on the principles of
mutual security, trust, openness, cooperation and predictability,

Appreciating the joint determination of the two countries to work together and
with other nations and international organizations to promote security, economic
well-being and a peaceful, prosperous free world,

Applauding the agreement whereby each country will reduce its strategic
nuclear warheads to a number that does not exceed 1,700 to 2,200, as specified in
the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions (Moscow Treaty), by 31 December
2012,

Believing that the agreed strategic reductions advance the commitment of both
the United States of America and the Russian Federation under article VI of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,49

Appreciating that the United States of America and the Russian Federation will
continue to work closely together, including through cooperative programmes, to
ensure the security of weapons of mass destruction and missile technologies,
information, expertise and material,

1. Welcomes the commitment of the two countries to strategic nuclear
warhead reductions in the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions (Moscow
Treaty), signed on 24 May 2002, which is an important result of this new bilateral
strategic relationship and which will help to establish more favourable conditions
for actively promoting security and cooperation and enhancing international
stability;

2. Looks forward to the entry into force of the Moscow Treaty at the earliest
possible date;

__________________
48 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 16: 1991 (United Nations publication, Sales

No. E.92.IX.1), appendix II.
49 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.



58

A/57/510

3. Notes with satisfaction the Joint Declaration signed by the United States
of America and the Russian Federation, in Moscow on 24 May 2002, which, inter
alia, created the Consultative Group for Strategic Security, chaired by Foreign and
Defence Ministers, through which the United States of America and the Russian
Federation will strengthen mutual confidence, expand transparency, share
information and plans and discuss strategic issues of mutual interest;

4. Recognizes that the Group of Eight Global Partnership Against the
Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, launched by leaders at the
Kananaskis Summit, held at Kananaskis, Canada, on 26 and 27 June 2002, will
enhance international security and safety by supporting specific cooperation
projects, initially in the Russian Federation, to address non-proliferation,
disarmament, counter-terrorism and nuclear safety issues;

5. Invites all countries, as appropriate, to join the Group of Eight
commitment to the non-proliferation principles endorsed by the Group of Eight
leaders at the Kananaskis Summit aimed at preventing terrorists, or those who
harbour them, from acquiring or developing nuclear, chemical, radiological and
biological weapons, missiles, and related materials, equipment and technology;

6. Invites the United States of America and the Russian Federation to keep
other States Members of the United Nations duly informed of their strategic
offensive reductions;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session an
item entitled “Bilateral strategic nuclear arms reductions and the new strategic
framework”.

L
Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 52/38 S of 9 December 1997, 53/77 A of 4 December
1998 and 55/33 W of 20 November 2000 and its decisions 54/417 of 1 December
1999 and 56/412 of 29 November 2001,

Recalling also paragraphs 60, 61, 62 and 64 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly50 and the provisions of the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,51 and recalling further the relevant
paragraphs of the Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons52 and of the report of its
Main Committee II53 concerning the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
Central Asia,

Convinced that the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones contributes to
the achievement of general and complete disarmament,

__________________
50 Resolution S-10/2.
51 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.
52 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I.
53 Ibid., vol. II (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Part III)), sect. 6, document NPT/CONF.2000/MC.II/1.



59

A/57/510

Emphasizing the importance of internationally recognized treaties on the
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones in different regions of the world and on
the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime,

Welcoming the adoption by the Disarmament Commission at its 1999
substantive session of principles and guidelines for the establishment of nuclear-
weapon-free zones on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States
of the region concerned,54

Considering that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central
Asia on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States of the region55
will heighten the security of the States concerned and strengthen global and regional
peace and security,

Recalling the Almaty Declaration on the establishment of a nuclear-free zone
in Central Asia, adopted by the leaders of the Central Asian States on 28 February
1997,56 the statement issued at Tashkent on 15 September 1997 by the Ministers for
Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and
Uzbekistan on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia57
and the Communiqué of the Consultative Meeting of Experts of the Central Asian
Countries, the Nuclear-Weapon States and the United Nations, held at Bishkek on 9
and 10 July 1998,58 with a view to elaborating acceptable ways and means of
establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia,

Reaffirming the universally recognized role of the United Nations in the
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones,

1. Notes with appreciation the support of all States for the initiative to
establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia;

2. Takes note of the elaboration by experts of all five Central Asian States at
the meeting held at Samarkand, from 25 to 27 September 2002, of a draft treaty and
its protocol for the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia;

3. Invites all five Central Asian States to continue consulting with the five
nuclear-weapon States on the draft treaty and its protocol for the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia, in conformity with the 1999
Disarmament Commission agreed guidelines for the establishment of nuclear-
weapon-free zones;54

4. Welcomes the decision by all five Central Asian States to sign the Central
Asian nuclear-weapon-free zone treaty as soon as possible;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to continue to
provide assistance to the five Central Asian States in their further work for the early
establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia;

__________________
54 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/54/42),

annex I.
55 Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.
56 A/52/112, annex.
57 A/52/390, annex.
58 A/53/183, annex.



60

A/57/510

6. Decides to continue its consideration of the question of the establishment
of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia at its fifty-eighth session under the
item entitled “General and complete disarmament”.

M
Assistance to States for curbing the illicit traffic in small arms and
collecting them

The General Assembly,

Considering that the illicit proliferation and circulation of and traffic in small
arms impede development, constitute a threat to populations and to national and
regional security and are a factor contributing to the destabilization of States,

Deeply disturbed by the magnitude of the illicit proliferation and circulation of
traffic in small arms in the States of the Sahelo-Saharan subregion,

Noting with satisfaction the conclusions of the United Nations advisory
missions dispatched by the Secretary-General to the affected countries of the
subregion to study the most appropriate way of halting the illicit circulation of small
arms and collecting them,

Welcoming the designation of the Department for Disarmament Affairs of the
Secretariat as a centre for the coordination of all activities of United Nations bodies
concerned with small arms,

Thanking the Secretary-General for his report on the causes of conflict and the
promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa,59 and bearing in
mind the statement on small arms made by the President of the Security Council on
24 September 1999,60

Welcoming the recommendations resulting from the meetings of the States of
the subregion held at Banjul, Algiers, Bamako, Yamoussoukro and Niamey to
establish close regional cooperation with a view to strengthening security,

Welcoming also the decision taken by the Economic Community of West
African States concerning the renewal of the declaration of a moratorium on the
importation, exportation and manufacture of small arms and light weapons in West
Africa,

Recalling the Algiers Declaration adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State
and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its thirty-fifth ordinary
session, held at Algiers from 12 to 14 July 1999,61

Emphasizing the need to advance efforts towards wider cooperation and better
coordination in the struggle against the illicit proliferation of small arms through the
common understanding reached at the meeting on small arms held at Oslo on 13 and
14 July 199862 and the Brussels Call for Action adopted by the International

__________________
59 A/52/871-S/1998/318.
60 S/PRST/1999/28; see Resolutions and Decisions of the Security Council, 1999.
61 A/54/424, annex II, decision AHG/Decl. 1 (XXXV).
62 See CD/1556.



61

A/57/510

Conference on Sustainable Disarmament for Sustainable Development, held at
Brussels on 12 and 13 October 1998,63

Bearing in mind the Bamako Declaration on an African Common Position on
the Illicit Proliferation, Circulation and Trafficking of Small Arms and Light
Weapons, adopted at Bamako on 1 December 2000,64

Recalling the millennium report of the Secretary-General,65

Welcoming the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the
Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects,66 adopted by the
United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in
All Its Aspects, and calling for its expeditious implementation,

Recognizing the important role that the organizations of civil society play in
detection, prevention and raising public awareness, in efforts to curb the illicit
traffic in small arms,

1. Notes with satisfaction the Declaration of the Ministerial Conference on
Security, Stability, Development and Cooperation in Africa, held in Abuja on 8 and
9 May 2000,67 encourages the Secretary-General to pursue his efforts in the context
of the implementation of General Assembly resolution 49/75 G of 15 December
1994 and the recommendations of the United Nations advisory missions, aimed at
curbing the illicit circulation of small arms and collecting such arms in the affected
States that so request, with the support of the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Africa and in close cooperation with the African Union;

2. Encourages the establishment in the countries of the Sahelo-Saharan
subregion of national commissions to combat the illicit proliferation of small arms,
and invites the international community to lend its support wherever possible to
ensure the smooth functioning of the commissions;

3. Welcomes the Declaration of a Moratorium on the Importation,
Exportation and Manufacture of Small Arms and Light Weapons in West Africa,
adopted by the heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West
African States in Abuja on 31 October 1998,68 and encourages the international
community to support the implementation of the moratorium;

4. Encourages the involvement of organizations and associations of civil
society in the efforts of the national commissions to combat the illicit traffic in small
arms and their participation in the implementation of the moratorium on the
importation, exportation and manufacture of small arms and light weapons in West
Africa as well as in the implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent,
Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its
Aspects;

__________________
63 A/53/681, annex.
64 A/CONF.192/PC/23, annex.
65 A/54/2000.
66 See Report of the United Nations Conference on Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons

in All Its Aspects, New York, 9-20 July 2001 (A/CONF.192/15), para. 24.
67 A/55/286, annex II, decision AHG/Decl. 4 (XXXVI).
68 A/53/763-S/1998/1194, annex.



62

A/57/510

5. Encourages also cooperation among State organs, international
organizations and civil society in combating the illicit traffic in small arms and
supporting operations to collect the said arms in the subregions;

6. Calls upon the international community to provide technical and
financial support to strengthen the capacity of civil organizations to take action to
combat the illicit trade in small arms;

7. Takes note of the conclusions of the meeting of Ministers for Foreign
Affairs of the Economic Community of West African States, held in Bamako on 24
and 25 March 1999, on the modalities for the implementation of the Programme for
Coordination and Assistance for Security and Development, and welcomes the
adoption by the meeting of a plan of action;

8. Takes note also of the conclusions of the African Conference on the
implementation of the Programme of Action, entitled “Needs and partnerships”, held
in Pretoria, South Africa, from 18 to 21 March 2002;

9. Invites the Secretary-General, and those States and organizations that are
in a position to do so to provide assistance to States for curbing the illicit traffic in
small arms and collecting them;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to consider the matter and to
report to it at its fifty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Assistance to States for curbing the illicit traffic in small arms and
collecting them”.

N
Missiles

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 54/54 F of 1 December 1999, 55/33 A of 20
November 2000 and 56/24 B of 29 November 2001,

Reaffirming the role of the United Nations in the field of arms regulation and
disarmament and the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps to
strengthen that role,

Realizing the need to promote regional and international peace and security in
a world free from the scourge of war and the burden of armaments,

Convinced of the need for a comprehensive approach towards missiles, in a
balanced and non-discriminatory manner, as a contribution to international peace
and security,

Bearing in mind that the security concerns of Member States at the
international and regional levels should be taken into consideration in addressing the
issue of missiles,

Underlining the complexities involved in considering the issue of missiles in
the conventional context,



63

A/57/510

Expressing its support for the international efforts against the development and
proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction,

Considering that the Secretary-General, in response to resolution 55/33 A,
established a Panel of Governmental Experts to assist him in preparing a report for
the consideration of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session on the issue of
missiles in all its aspects,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the issue of missiles in
all its aspects;69

2. Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Member States on
the report on the issue of missiles in all its aspects and to submit a report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a Panel of
Governmental Experts, to explore further the issue of missiles in all its aspects and
to submit a report for consideration by the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth
session;

4. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General containing the replies
from Member States on the issue of missiles in all its aspects,70 submitted pursuant
to resolution 55/33 A;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Missiles”.

O
The illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolution 56/24 V of 24 December 2001,

Recalling its resolutions 50/70 B of 12 December 1995, 52/38 J of 9 December
1997, 53/77 E and 53/77 T of 4 December 1998, 54/54 R of 1 December 1999,
54/54 V of 15 December 1999 and 55/33 Q of 20 November 2000,

Emphasizing the importance of early and full implementation of the
Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small
Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects,71 adopted by the United Nations
Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects,

1. Decides to convene in New York in July 2003 the first of the biennial
meetings of States, as stipulated in the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and
Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects to
consider the implementation of the Programme of Action at the national, regional
and global levels;

__________________
69 A/57/229.
70 A/57/114 and Add.1 and 2.
71 See Report of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light

Weapons in All Its Aspects, New York, 9-20 July 2001 (A/CONF.192/15), para. 24.



64

A/57/510

2. Welcomes the convening of the Group of Governmental Experts
established to assist the Secretary-General to undertake a study on the feasibility of
developing an international instrument to enable States to identify and trace, in a
timely and reliable manner, illicit small arms and light weapons, and requests him to
submit the study to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;

3. Encourages all initiatives to mobilize resources and expertise to promote
the implementation of the Programme of Action and to provide assistance to States
in its implementation;

4. Decides to consider at its fifty-eighth session further steps to enhance
international cooperation in preventing, combating and eradicating illicit brokering
in small arms and light weapons, taking into consideration the views of States,
provided to the Secretary-General, on further steps that could be taken;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to collate and circulate data
and information provided by States on a voluntary basis, including national reports,
on the implementation by those States of the Programme of Action;

6. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fifty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “The illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects”.

P
Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 51/45 B of 10 December 1996, 52/38 N of 9
December 1997, 53/77 Q of 4 December 1998, 54/54 L of 1 December 1999, 55/33 I
of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 G of 29 November 2001,

Welcoming the adoption by the Disarmament Commission at its 1999
substantive session of a text entitled “Establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States of the region
concerned”,72

Welcoming also the decision taken by Cuba to ratify the Treaty of Tlatelolco,73
which will fulfil the establishment of the first inhabited nuclear-weapon-free zone,
encompassing all States of Latin America and the Caribbean,

Welcoming further the ratification by the Kingdom of Tonga of the Treaty of
Rarotonga,74 in December 2001, which completes the list of original parties to the
South Pacific nuclear-free-zone treaty,

__________________
72 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/54/42),

annex I.
73 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.
74 See The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 10: 1985 (United Nations publication,

Sales No. E.86.IX.7), appendix VII.



65

A/57/510

Welcoming the endorsement from heads of State and Government at the thirty-
third Pacific Islands Forum, held in Suva, Fiji, from 15 to 17 August 2002, for a
nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere,

Welcoming also the meeting between the Secretary General of the Agency for
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean and
representatives of the Pacific Islands Forum secretariat, held in New York in April
2002, aimed at identifying areas for further cooperation,

Determined to pursue the total elimination of nuclear weapons,

Determined also to continue to contribute to the prevention of the proliferation
of nuclear weapons in all its aspects and to the process of general and complete
disarmament under strict and effective international control, in particular in the field
of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, with a view to
strengthening international peace and security, in accordance with the purposes and
principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling the provisions on nuclear-weapon-free zones of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly,75 the first special session
devoted to disarmament,

Stressing the importance of the treaties of Tlatelolco,73 Rarotonga,74

Bangkok76 and Pelindaba,77 establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones, as well as the
Antarctic Treaty,78 to, inter alia, achieve a world entirely free of nuclear weapons,

Underlining the value of enhancing cooperation among the nuclear-weapon-
free zone treaty members by means of mechanisms such as joint meetings of States
parties, signatories and observers to those treaties,

Recalling the applicable principles and rules of international law relating to the
freedom of the high seas and the rights of passage through maritime space, including
those of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,79

1. Welcomes the continued contribution that the Antarctic Treaty,78 and the
treaties of Tlatelolco,73 Rarotonga,74 Bangkok76 and Pelindaba77 are making towards
freeing the southern hemisphere and adjacent areas covered by those treaties from
nuclear weapons;

2. Calls for the ratification of the treaties of Tlatelolco, Rarotonga, Bangkok
and Pelindaba by all States of the region, and calls upon all concerned States to
continue to work together in order to facilitate adherence to the protocols to nuclear-
weapon-free zone treaties by all relevant States that have not yet done so;

__________________
75 Resolution S-10/2.
76 Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone.
77 A/50/426, annex.
78 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, No. 5778.
79 See The Law of the Sea: Official Texts of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea

of 10 December 1982 and of the Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 with Index and Excerpts
from the Final Act of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.V.10).



66

A/57/510

3. Welcomes the steps taken to conclude further nuclear-weapon-free zone
treaties on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States of the region
concerned, and calls upon all States to consider all relevant proposals, including
those reflected in its resolutions on the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
in the Middle East and South Asia;

4. Convinced of the important role of nuclear-weapon-free zones in
strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime and in extending the areas of the
world that are nuclear-weapon-free, and, with particular reference to the
responsibilities of the nuclear-weapon States, calls upon all States to support the
process of nuclear disarmament and to work for the total elimination of all nuclear
weapons;

5. Calls upon the States parties and signatories to the treaties of Tlatelolco,
Rarotonga, Bangkok and Pelindaba, in order to pursue the common goals envisaged
in those treaties and to promote the nuclear-weapon-free status of the southern
hemisphere and adjacent areas, to explore and implement further ways and means of
cooperation among themselves and their treaty agencies;

6. Welcomes the vigorous efforts being made among States parties and
signatories to those treaties to promote their common objectives, and considers that
an international conference of States parties and signatories to the nuclear-weapon-
free-zone treaties might be held to support the common goals envisaged in those
treaties;

7. Encourages the competent authorities of the nuclear-weapon-free-zone
treaties to provide assistance to the States parties and signatories to those treaties so
as to facilitate the accomplishment of these goals;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas”.

Q
Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use,
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and
on Their Destruction

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 54/54 B of 1 December 1999, 55/33 V of 20
November 2000 and 56/24 M of 29 November 2001,

Reaffirming its determination to put an end to the suffering and casualties
caused by anti-personnel mines, which kill or maim hundreds of people every week,
mostly innocent and defenceless civilians and especially children, obstruct economic
development and reconstruction, inhibit the repatriation of refugees and internally
displaced persons, and have other severe consequences for years after emplacement,

Believing it necessary to do the utmost to contribute in an efficient and
coordinated manner to facing the challenge of removing anti-personnel mines placed
throughout the world, and to assure their destruction,

Wishing to do the utmost in ensuring assistance for the care and rehabilitation,
including the social and economic reintegration, of mine victims,



67

A/57/510

Welcoming the entry into force, on 1 March 1999, of the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel
Mines and on Their Destruction,80 and noting with satisfaction the work undertaken
to implement the Convention and the substantial progress made towards addressing
the global landmine problem,

Recalling the First Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention, held at
Maputo from 3 to 7 May 1999, and the reaffirmation made in the Maputo
Declaration of a commitment to the total eradication of anti-personnel mines,81

Recalling also the Second Meeting of States Parties to the Convention, held at
Geneva from 11 to 15 September 2000, and the Declaration of the Second Meeting
of States Parties reaffirming the commitment to implement completely and fully all
provisions of the Convention,82

Recalling further the Third Meeting of States Parties to the Convention, held at
Managua from 18 to 21 September 2001, and the Declaration of the Third Meeting
of States Parties reaffirming the unwavering commitment both to the total
eradication of anti-personnel mines and to addressing the insidious and inhumane
effects of those weapons,83

Recalling the Fourth Meeting of States Parties to the Convention, held at
Geneva from 16 to 20 September 2002, and the Declaration of the Fourth Meeting of
States Parties reaffirming the commitment of the States parties to intensify further
their efforts in those areas most directly related to the core humanitarian objectives
of the Convention,

Noting with satisfaction that additional States have ratified or acceded to the
Convention, bringing the total number of States that have formally accepted the
obligations of the Convention to one hundred and twenty-nine,

Emphasizing the desirability of attracting the adherence of all States to the
Convention, and determined to work strenuously towards the promotion of its
universalization,

Noting with regret that anti-personnel mines continue to be used in conflicts
around the world, causing human suffering and impeding post-conflict development,

1. Invites all States that have not signed the Convention on the Prohibition
of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on
Their Destruction80 to accede to it without delay;

2. Urges all States that have signed but not ratified the Convention to ratify
it without delay;

3. Stresses the importance of the full and effective implementation of, and
compliance with, the Convention;

4. Urges all States parties to provide the Secretary-General with complete
and timely information as required under article 7 of the Convention, in order to
promote transparency and compliance with the Convention;

__________________
80 See CD/1478.
81 See APLC/MSP.1/1999/1, part II.
82 See APLC/MSP.2/2000/1, part II.
83 See APLC/MSP.3/2001/1, part II.



68

A/57/510

5. Invites all States that have not ratified the Convention or acceded to it to
provide, on a voluntary basis, information to make global mine action efforts more
effective;

6. Renews its call upon all States and other relevant parties to work together
to promote, support and advance the care, rehabilitation and social and economic
reintegration of mine victims, mine risk education programmes, and the removal of
anti-personnel mines placed throughout the world and the assurance of their
destruction;

7. Invites and encourages all interested States, the United Nations, other
relevant international organizations or institutions, regional organizations, the
International Committee of the Red Cross and relevant non-governmental
organizations to participate in the programme of intersessional work established at
the First Meeting of States Parties to the Convention and further developed at the
Second, Third and Fourth Meetings of States Parties to the Convention;

8. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with article 11, paragraph
2, of the Convention, to undertake the preparations necessary to convene the Fifth
Meeting of States Parties to the Convention at Bangkok from 15 to 19 September
2003, and, on behalf of States parties and in accordance with article 11, paragraph 4,
of the Convention, to invite States not parties to the Convention, as well as the
United Nations, other relevant international organizations or institutions, regional
organizations, the International Committee of the Red Cross and relevant non-
governmental organizations to attend the Meeting as observers;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use,
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their
Destruction”.

R
Transparency in armaments

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 46/36 L of 9 December 1991, 47/52 L of 15
December 1992, 48/75 E of 16 December 1993, 49/75 C of 15 December 1994,
50/70 D of 12 December 1995, 51/45 H of 10 December 1996, 52/38 R of 9
December 1997, 53/77 V of 4 December 1998, 54/54 O of 1 December 1999,
55/33 U of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 Q of 29 November 2001 entitled
“Transparency in armaments”,

Continuing to take the view that an enhanced level of transparency in
armaments contributes greatly to confidence-building and security among States and
that the establishment of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms84
constitutes an important step forward in the promotion of transparency in military
matters,

__________________
84 See resolution 46/36 L.



69

A/57/510

Welcoming the consolidated report of the Secretary-General on the Register,85
which includes the returns of Member States for 2001,

Welcoming also the response of Member States to the request contained in
paragraphs 9 and 10 of resolution 46/36 L to provide data on their imports and
exports of arms, as well as available background information regarding their
military holdings, procurement through national production and relevant policies,

Stressing that the continuing operation of the Register and its further
development should be reviewed in order to secure a Register that is capable of
attracting the widest possible participation,

1. Reaffirms its determination to ensure the effective operation of the United
Nations Register of Conventional Arms,84 as provided for in paragraphs 7 to 10 of
resolution 46/36 L;

2. Calls upon Member States, with a view to achieving universal
participation, to provide the Secretary-General by 31 May annually with the
requested data and information for the Register, including nil reports if appropriate,
on the basis of resolutions 46/36 L and 47/52 L, the recommendations contained in
paragraph 64 of the 1997 report of the Secretary-General on the continuing
operation of the Register and its further development86 and the recommendations
contained in paragraph 94 of the 2000 report of the Secretary-General and the
appendices and annexes thereto;87

3. Invites Member States in a position to do so, pending further
development of the Register, to provide additional information on procurement from
national production and military holdings and to make use of the “Remarks” column
in the standardized reporting form to provide additional information such as types or
models;

4. Reaffirms its decision, with a view to further development of the
Register, to keep the scope of and participation in the Register under review and, to
that end:

(a) Recalls its request to Member States to provide the Secretary-General
with their views on the continuing operation of the Register and its further
development and on transparency measures related to weapons of mass destruction;

(b) Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group of
governmental experts to be convened in 2003, on the basis of equitable geographical
representation, to prepare a report on the continuing operation of the Register and its
further development, taking into account the work of the Conference on
Disarmament, the views expressed by Member States and the reports of the
Secretary-General on the continuing operation of the Register and its further
development, with a view to a decision at its fifty-eighth session;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to implement the recommendations
contained in his 2000 report on the continuing operation of the Register and its
further development and to ensure that sufficient resources are made available for
the Secretariat to operate and maintain the Register;

__________________
85 A/57/221 and Corr.1.
86 A/52/316 and Corr.2.
87 A/55/281.



70

A/57/510

6. Invites the Conference on Disarmament to consider continuing its work
undertaken in the field of transparency in armaments;

7. Reiterates its call upon all Member States to cooperate at the regional
and subregional levels, taking fully into account the specific conditions prevailing in
the region or subregion, with a view to enhancing and coordinating international
efforts aimed at increased openness and transparency in armaments;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
fifty-eighth session on progress made in implementing the present resolution;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Transparency in armaments”.

S
Regional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 45/58 P of 4 December 1990, 46/36 I of 6 December
1991, 47/52 J of 9 December 1992, 48/75 I of 16 December 1993, 49/75 N of 15
December 1994, 50/70 K of 12 December 1995, 51/45 K of 10 December 1996,
52/38 P of 9 December 1997, 53/77 O of 4 December 1998, 54/54 N of 1 December
1999, 55/33 O of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 H of 29 November 2001 on regional
disarmament,

Believing that the efforts of the international community to move towards the
ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human desire
for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war and the release
of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful pursuits,

Affirming the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and principles
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in the conduct of their international
relations,

Noting that essential guidelines for progress towards general and complete
disarmament were adopted at the tenth special session of the General Assembly,88

Taking note of the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to
disarmament within the context of global security adopted by the Disarmament
Commission at its 1993 substantive session,89

Welcoming the prospects of genuine progress in the field of disarmament
engendered in recent years as a result of negotiations between the two super-Powers,

Taking note of the recent proposals for disarmament at the regional and
subregional levels,

Recognizing the importance of confidence-building measures for regional and
international peace and security,

__________________
88 Resolution S-10/2.
89 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42),

annex II.



71

A/57/510

Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament,
taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in accordance
with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of armaments, would
enhance the security of all States and would thus contribute to international peace
and security by reducing the risk of regional conflicts,

1. Stresses that sustained efforts are needed, within the framework of the
Conference on Disarmament and under the umbrella of the United Nations, to make
progress on the entire range of disarmament issues;

2. Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament complement
each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to promote regional and
international peace and security;

3. Calls upon States to conclude agreements, wherever possible, for nuclear
non-proliferation, disarmament and confidence-building measures at the regional
and subregional levels;

4. Welcomes the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation
and security undertaken by some countries at the regional and subregional levels;

5. Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building
measures at the regional and subregional levels to ease regional tensions and to
further disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation measures at the regional and
subregional levels;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Regional disarmament”.

T
Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 48/75 J of 16 December 1993, 49/75 O of 15
December 1994, 50/70 L of 12 December 1995, 51/45 Q of 10 December 1996,
52/38 Q of 9 December 1997, 53/77 P of 4 December 1998, 54/54 M of 1 December
1999, 55/33 P of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 I of 29 November 2001,

Recognizing the crucial role of conventional arms control in promoting
regional and international peace and security,

Convinced that conventional arms control needs to be pursued primarily in the
regional and subregional contexts since most threats to peace and security in the
post-cold-war era arise mainly among States located in the same region or
subregion,

Aware that the preservation of a balance in the defence capabilities of States at
the lowest level of armaments would contribute to peace and stability and should be
a prime objective of conventional arms control,

Desirous of promoting agreements to strengthen regional peace and security at
the lowest possible level of armaments and military forces,



72

A/57/510

Noting with particular interest the initiatives taken in this regard in different
regions of the world, in particular the commencement of consultations among a
number of Latin American countries and the proposals for conventional arms control
made in the context of South Asia, and recognizing, in the context of this subject,
the relevance and value of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe,90
which is a cornerstone of European security,

Believing that militarily significant States and States with larger military
capabilities have a special responsibility in promoting such agreements for regional
security,

Believing also that an important objective of conventional arms control in
regions of tension should be to prevent the possibility of military attack launched by
surprise and to avoid aggression,

1. Decides to give urgent consideration to the issues involved in
conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to consider the formulation of
principles that can serve as a framework for regional agreements on conventional
arms control, and looks forward to a report of the Conference on this subject;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in the meantime, to seek the views of
Member States on the subject and to submit a report to the General Assembly at its
fifty-eighth session;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels”.

U
A path to the total elimination of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 49/75 H of 15 December 1994, 50/70 C of 12
December 1995, 51/45 G of 10 December 1996, 52/38 K of 9 December 1997,
53/77 U of 4 December 1998, 54/54 D of 1 December 1999, 55/33 R of 20
November 2000 and 56/24 N of 29 November 2001,

Recognizing that the enhancement of international peace and security and the
promotion of nuclear disarmament mutually complement and strengthen each other,

Reaffirming the crucial importance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons91 as the cornerstone of the international regime for nuclear non-
proliferation and as an essential foundation for the pursuit of nuclear disarmament,
and welcoming the decision of the Republic of Cuba to accede to the Treaty,

Recognizing the progress made by the nuclear-weapon States in the reduction
of their nuclear weapons unilaterally or through their negotiations, including the
completion of the reductions of strategic offensive weapons according to the Treaty

__________________
90 CD/1064.
91 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.



73

A/57/510

on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (START I)92 and the
recent signing of the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions between the United
States of America and the Russian Federation,93 which should serve as a step for
further nuclear disarmament, and the efforts for nuclear disarmament and non-
proliferation by the international community,

Reaffirming the conviction that further advancement in nuclear disarmament
will contribute to consolidating the international regime for nuclear non-
proliferation, ensuring international peace and security,

Welcoming the continuation of a moratorium on nuclear-weapon-test
explosions or any other nuclear explosions since the recent nuclear tests,

Welcoming also the successful adoption of the Final Document of the 2000
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons,94 and stressing the importance of implementing its conclusions,

Welcoming further the constructive start of the strengthened review process at
the first session, held in New York from 8 to 19 April 2002, of the Preparatory
Committee for the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to be held in 2005,

Welcoming the successful convening of a series of seminars aiming at further
reinforcement of International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards in Latin America,
Central Asia, Africa and the Asia-Pacific region, and sharing the hope that the
conference to be held in Tokyo in December 2002 will further strengthen the
International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards system, including universalization
of its safeguards agreements and the additional protocols thereto, by making utmost
use of the outcomes of the aforementioned seminars,

Encouraging the Russian Federation and the United States of America to
continue their intensive consultations in accordance with the Joint Declaration on
the New Strategic Relationship between the two States,93

Welcoming the Final Declaration of the Conference on Facilitating the Entry
into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, convened in New York
from 11 to 13 November 200195 in accordance with article XIV of the Treaty,96

Recognizing the importance of preventing terrorists from acquiring or
developing nuclear weapons or related materials, radioactive materials, equipment
and technology,

Stressing the importance of education on disarmament and non-proliferation
for future generations, and noting with satisfaction the submission of the report of
the group of governmental experts on this issue by the Secretary-General to the
General Assembly,97

__________________
92 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 16:1991 (United Nations publication, Sales No.

E.92.IX.1), appendix II.
93 See CD/1674.
94 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vols. I-III (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I-IV)).
95 CTBT-ART.XIV/2001/6, annex.
96 See resolution 50/245.
97 A/57/124.



74

A/57/510

1. Reaffirms the importance of achieving the universality of the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,91 and calls upon States not parties to the
Treaty to accede to it as non-nuclear-weapon States without delay and without
conditions;

2. Also reaffirms the importance for all States parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to fulfil their obligations under the Treaty;

3. Stresses the central importance of the following practical steps for the
systematic and progressive efforts to implement article VI of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and paragraphs 3 and 4 (c) of the decision on
principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament of the 1995
Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty:98

(a) The importance and urgency of signatures and ratifications, without delay
and without conditions and in accordance with constitutional processes, to achieve
the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty96 as well as
a moratorium on nuclear-weapon-test explosions or any other nuclear explosions
pending the entry into force of that Treaty;

(b) The establishment of an ad hoc committee in the Conference on
Disarmament as early as possible during its 2003 session to negotiate a non-
discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty
banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear
explosive devices, in accordance with the report of the Special Coordinator of
199599 and the mandate contained therein, taking into consideration both nuclear
disarmament and non-proliferation objectives, with a view to its conclusion within
five years and, pending its entry into force, a moratorium on the production of fissile
material for nuclear weapons;

(c) The establishment of an appropriate subsidiary body with a mandate to
deal with nuclear disarmament in the Conference on Disarmament as early as
possible during its 2003 session in the context of establishing a programme of work;

(d) The inclusion of the principle of irreversibility to apply to nuclear
disarmament, nuclear and other related arms control and reduction measures;

(e) An unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon States, as agreed at
the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons, to accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals,
leading to nuclear disarmament, to which all States parties to the Treaty are
committed under article VI of the Treaty;

(f) Deep reductions by the Russian Federation and the United States of
America in their strategic offensive arsenals, while placing great importance on the
existing multilateral treaties, with a view to maintaining and strengthening strategic
stability and international security;

__________________
98 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of

Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex,
decision 2.

99 CD/1299.



75

A/57/510

(g) Steps by all the nuclear-weapon States leading to nuclear disarmament in
a way that promotes international stability, and based on the principle of
undiminished security for all:

(i) Further efforts by all the nuclear-weapon States to continue to reduce
their nuclear arsenals unilaterally;

(ii) Increased transparency by the nuclear-weapon States with regard to their
nuclear weapons capabilities and the implementation of agreements pursuant
to article VI of the Treaty and as voluntary confidence-building measures to
support further progress on nuclear disarmament;

(iii) The further reduction of non-strategic nuclear weapons, based on
unilateral initiatives and as an integral part of the nuclear arms reduction and
disarmament process;

(iv) Concrete agreed measures to reduce further the operational status of
nuclear weapons systems;

(v) A diminishing role for nuclear weapons in security policies to minimize
the risk that these weapons will ever be used and to facilitate the process of
their total elimination;

(vi) The engagement, as soon as appropriate, of all the nuclear-weapon States
in the process leading to the total elimination of their nuclear weapons;

(h) Reaffirmation that the ultimate objective of the efforts of States in the
disarmament process is general and complete disarmament under effective
international control;

4. Recognizes that the realization of a world free of nuclear weapons will
require further steps, including deeper reductions by all the nuclear-weapon States
in the process of working towards achieving their elimination;

5. Invites the nuclear-weapon States to keep the Members of the United
Nations duly informed of the progress or efforts made towards nuclear disarmament;

6. Emphasizes the importance of a successful Review Conference of the
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in 2005 as the
second session of the Preparatory Committee will be convened in 2003;

7. Welcomes the ongoing efforts in the dismantlement of nuclear weapons,
notes the importance of the safe and effective management of the resultant fissile
materials, and calls for arrangements by all the nuclear-weapon States to place, as
soon as practicable, fissile material designated by each of them as no longer
required for military purposes under International Atomic Energy Agency or other
relevant international verification and arrangements for the disposition of such
material for peaceful purposes to ensure that such material remains permanently
outside of military programmes;

8. Stresses the importance of further development of the verification
capabilities, including International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, that will be
required to provide assurance of compliance with nuclear disarmament agreements
for the achievement and maintenance of a nuclear-weapon-free world;



76

A/57/510

9. Calls upon all States to redouble their efforts to prevent and curb the
proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction, confirming and
strengthening, if necessary, their policies not to transfer equipment, materials or
technology that could contribute to the proliferation of those weapons, while
ensuring that such policies are consistent with the obligations of States under the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;

10. Also calls upon all States to maintain the highest possible standards of
security, safe custody, effective control and physical protection of all materials that
could contribute to the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass
destruction in order, inter alia, to prevent those materials from falling into the hands
of terrorists;

11. Welcomes the adoption, on 20 September 2002 by the General
Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and stresses the importance
of resolution GC(46)/RES/12,100 in which it is recommended that the Director
General, the Board of Governors and member States of the Agency continue to
consider implementing the elements of the plan of action outlined in resolution
GC(44)/RES/19, adopted on 22 September 2000 by the General Conference of the
Agency,101 to promote and facilitate the conclusion and entry into force of
safeguards agreements and additional protocols, and calls for the early and full
implementation of that resolution;

12. Encourages the constructive role played by civil society in promoting
nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament.

V
Nuclear disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 49/75 E of 15 December 1994 on a step-by-step
reduction of the nuclear threat, and its resolutions 50/70 P of 12 December 1995,
51/45 O of 10 December 1996, 52/38 L of 9 December 1997, 53/77 X of
4 December 1998, 54/54 P of 1 December 1999, 55/33 T of 20 November 2000 and
56/24 R of 29 November 2001 on nuclear disarmament,

Reaffirming the commitment of the international community to the goal of the
total elimination of nuclear weapons and the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free
world,

Bearing in mind that the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and
on Their Destruction of 1972102 and the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction of 1993103 have already established legal regimes on the complete

__________________
100 See International Atomic Energy Agency. Resolutions and Other Decisions of the General

Conference, Forty-sixth Regular Session, 16-20 September 2002 (GC(46)/RES/DEC (2002)).
101 Ibid., Forty-fourth Regular Session, 18-22 September 2000 (GC(44)/RES/DEC (2000)).
102 Resolution 2826 (XXVI), annex.
103 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27

(A/47/27), appendix I.



77

A/57/510

prohibition of biological and chemical weapons, respectively, and determined to
achieve a nuclear weapons convention on the prohibition of the development,
testing, production, stockpiling, loan transfer, use and threat of use of nuclear
weapons and on their destruction, and to conclude such an international convention
at an early date,

Recognizing that there now exist conditions for the establishment of a world
free of nuclear weapons, and stressing the need to take concrete practical steps
towards achieving this goal,

Bearing in mind paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly,104 the first special session devoted to
disarmament, calling for the urgent negotiation of agreements for the cessation of
the qualitative improvement and development of nuclear-weapon systems, and for a
comprehensive and phased programme with agreed time frames, wherever feasible,
for the progressive and balanced reduction of nuclear weapons and their means of
delivery, leading to their ultimate and complete elimination at the earliest possible
time,

Noting the reiteration by the States parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons105 of their conviction that the Treaty is a
cornerstone of nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament and the
reaffirmation by the States parties of the importance of the decision on strengthening
the review process for the Treaty,106 the decision on principles and objectives for
nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament,106 the decision on the extension of the
Treaty106 and the resolution on the Middle East,106 adopted by the 1995 Review and
Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons,

Reiterating the highest priority accorded to nuclear disarmament in the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly and by the
international community,

Welcoming the entry into force of the Treaty on the Reduction and Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Arms (START I),107 to which Belarus, Kazakhstan, the
Russian Federation, Ukraine and the United States of America are States parties,

Reiterating its call for an early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty,108

Noting with appreciation the signing of the Treaty on Strategic Offensive
Reductions (“the Moscow Treaty”) by the United States of America and the Russian
Federation109 as a significant step towards reducing their deployed strategic nuclear
weapons, while calling for further irreversible deep cuts in their nuclear arsenals,

__________________
104 Resolution S-10/2.
105 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.
106 See 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation

of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex.
107 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 16: 1991 (United Nations publication, Sales

No. E.92.IX.1), appendix II.
108 See resolution 50/245.
109 See CD/1674.



78

A/57/510

Noting with appreciation also the unilateral measures by the nuclear-weapon
States for nuclear arms limitation, and encouraging them to take further such
measures,

Recognizing the complementarity of bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral
negotiations on nuclear disarmament, and that bilateral negotiations can never
replace multilateral negotiations in this respect,

Noting the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure non-
nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and the
multilateral efforts in the Conference on Disarmament to reach agreement on such
an international convention at an early date,

Recalling the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued on 8 July 1996,110 and
welcoming the unanimous reaffirmation by all Judges of the Court that there exists
an obligation for all States to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion
negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and
effective international control,

Mindful of paragraph 114 and other relevant recommendations in the Final
Document of the Twelfth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-
Aligned Countries, held at Durban, South Africa, from 29 August to 3 September
1998,111 calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to establish, on a priority
basis, an ad hoc committee to commence negotiations in 1998 on a phased
programme of nuclear disarmament and for the eventual elimination of nuclear
weapons with a specified framework of time,

Recalling paragraph 72 of the Final Document of the Thirteenth Ministerial
Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Cartagena,
Colombia, on 8 and 9 April 2000,112

Bearing in mind the principles and guidelines on the establishment of nuclear-
weapon-free zones, adopted by the Disarmament Commission at its substantive
session of 1999,113

Welcoming the United Nations Millennium Declaration,114 in which heads of
State and Government resolve to strive for the elimination of weapons of mass
destruction, in particular nuclear weapons, and to keep all options open for
achieving this aim, including the possibility of convening an international
conference to identify ways of eliminating nuclear dangers,

Reaffirming that, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, States
should refrain from the use or the threat of use of nuclear weapons in settling their
disputes in international relations,

__________________
110 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion,

I.C.J. Reports 1996, p. 226.
111 A/53/667-S/1998/1071, annex I.
112 A/54/917-S/2000/580, annex.
113 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/54/42),

annex I.
114 See resolution 55/2.



79

A/57/510

Seized of the danger of the use of weapons of mass destruction, particularly
nuclear weapons, in terrorist acts and the urgent need for concerted international
efforts to control and overcome it,

1. Recognizes that, in view of recent political developments, the time is now
opportune for all the nuclear-weapon States to take effective disarmament measures
with a view to achieving the elimination of these weapons;

2. Also recognizes that there is a genuine need to diminish the role of
nuclear weapons in strategic doctrines and security policies to minimize the risk that
these weapons will ever be used and to facilitate the process of their total
elimination;

3. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to stop immediately the qualitative
improvement, development, production and stockpiling of nuclear warheads and
their delivery systems;

4. Also urges the nuclear-weapon States, as an interim measure, to de-alert
and deactivate immediately their nuclear weapons and to take other concrete
measures to reduce further the operational status of their nuclear-weapon systems;

5. Reiterates its call upon the nuclear-weapon States to undertake the step-
by-step reduction of the nuclear threat and to carry out effective nuclear
disarmament measures with a view to achieving the total elimination of these
weapons;

6. Calls upon the nuclear-weapon States, pending the achievement of the
total elimination of nuclear weapons, to agree on an internationally and legally
binding instrument on a joint undertaking not to be the first to use nuclear weapons,
and calls upon all States to conclude an internationally and legally binding
instrument on security assurances of non-use and non-threat of use of nuclear
weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States;

7. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to commence plurilateral negotiations
among themselves at an appropriate stage on further deep reductions of nuclear
weapons as an effective measure of nuclear disarmament;

8. Underlines the importance of applying the principle of irreversibility to
the process of nuclear disarmament, nuclear and other related arms control and
reduction measures;

9. Welcomes the positive outcome of the 2000 Review Conference of the
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, held in New
York from 24 April to 19 May 2000;115

10. Also welcomes the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon
States, in the Final Document of the Review Conference, to accomplish the total
elimination of their nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear disarmament, to which all
States parties are committed under article VI of the Treaty,116 and the reaffirmation
by the States parties that the total elimination of nuclear weapons is the only

__________________
115 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)).
116 Ibid., part I, section entitled “Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”,

para. 15:6.



80

A/57/510

absolute guarantee against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,117 and calls
for the full and effective implementation of the steps set out in the Final Document;

11. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to carry out further reductions of non-
strategic nuclear weapons, based on unilateral initiatives and as an integral part of
the nuclear arms reduction and disarmament process;

12. Calls for the immediate commencement of negotiations in the
Conference on Disarmament on a non-discriminatory, multilateral and
internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile
material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices on the basis of the
report of the Special Coordinator118 and the mandate contained therein;

13. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to agree on a programme of work
which includes the immediate commencement of negotiations on such a treaty with
a view to their conclusion within five years;

14. Calls for the conclusion of an international legal instrument or
instruments on adequate security assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States;

15. Also calls for the early entry into force and strict observance of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty;108

16. Expresses its regret that the Conference on Disarmament was unable to
establish an ad hoc committee on nuclear disarmament at its 2002 session, as called
for in General Assembly resolution 56/24 R;

17. Reiterates its call upon the Conference on Disarmament to establish, on a
priority basis, an ad hoc committee to deal with nuclear disarmament early in 2003
and to commence negotiations on a phased programme of nuclear disarmament
leading to the eventual total elimination of nuclear weapons;

18. Calls for the convening of an international conference on nuclear
disarmament in all its aspects at an early date to identify and deal with concrete
measures of nuclear disarmament;

19. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
fifty-eighth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;

20. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Nuclear disarmament”.

__________________
117 Ibid., section entitled “Article VII and the security of non-nuclear-weapon States”, para. 2.
118 CD/1299.



81

A/57/510

W
The Conference on Disarmament decision (CD/1547) of 11 August
1998 to establish, under item 1 of its agenda entitled “Cessation of
the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament”, an ad hoc
committee to negotiate, on the basis of the report of the Special
Coordinator (CD/1299) and the mandate contained therein, a non-
discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively
verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for
nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 48/75 L of 16 December 1993, 53/77 I of 4 December
1998, 55/33 Y of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 J of 29 November 2001,

Convinced that a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and
effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear
weapons or other nuclear explosive devices would be a significant contribution to
nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation,

Recalling the 1998 report of the Conference on Disarmament, in which, inter
alia, the Conference records that, in proceeding to take a decision on this matter, that
decision is without prejudice to any further decisions on the establishment of further
subsidiary bodies under agenda item 1 and that intensive consultations will be
pursued to seek the views of the members of the Conference on Disarmament on
appropriate methods and approaches for dealing with agenda item 1, taking into
consideration all proposals and views in that respect,119

1. Recalls the decision of the Conference on Disarmament119 to establish,
under item 1 of its agenda entitled “Cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear
disarmament”, an ad hoc committee which shall negotiate, on the basis of the report
of the Special Coordinator120 and the mandate contained therein, a non-
discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty
banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear
explosive devices;

2. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to agree on a programme of work
that includes the immediate commencement of negotiations on such a treaty.

X
Consolidation of peace through practical disarmament measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 51/45 N of 10 December 1996, 52/38 G of
9 December 1997, 53/77 M of 4 December 1998, 54/54 H of 1 December 1999,
55/33 G of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 P of 29 November 2001,

__________________
119 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/53/27),

para. 10.
120 CD/1299.



82

A/57/510

Convinced that a comprehensive and integrated approach towards certain
practical disarmament measures often is a prerequisite to maintaining and
consolidating peace and security and thus provides a basis for effective post-conflict
peace-building, namely the rehabilitation and social and economic development in
areas that have suffered from conflict; such measures are, inter alia, collection and
responsible disposal, preferably through destruction, of weapons obtained through
illicit trafficking or illicit manufacture as well as of weapons and ammunition
declared by competent national authorities to be surplus to requirements,
particularly with regard to small arms and light weapons, unless another form of
disposition or use has been officially authorized and provided that such weapons
have been duly marked and registered; confidence-building measures; disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration of former combatants; demining; and conversion,

Noting with satisfaction that the international community is more than ever
aware of the importance of such practical disarmament measures, especially with
regard to the growing problems arising from the excessive accumulation and
uncontrolled spread of small arms and light weapons, which pose a threat to peace
and security and reduce the prospects for economic development in many regions,
particularly in post-conflict situations,

Stressing that further efforts are needed in order to develop and effectively
implement programmes of practical disarmament in affected areas as part of
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration measures so as to complement, on a
case-by-case basis, peacekeeping and peace-building efforts,

Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on
prevention of armed conflict,121 which, inter alia, refers to the role which the
proliferation and illicit transfer of small arms and light weapons play in the context
of the build-up and sustaining of conflicts and proposes certain measures relating to
those weapons that can help to prevent such conflicts,

Taking note of the statement by the President of the Security Council of
31 August 2001122 underlining the importance of practical disarmament measures in
the context of armed conflicts, and, with regard to disarmament, demobilization and
reintegration programmes, emphasizing the importance of measures to be taken to
contain the security risks stemming from the use of illicit small arms and light
weapons,

Also taking note of the report of the Secretary-General prepared with the
assistance of the Group of Governmental Experts on Small Arms,123 and in
particular the recommendations contained therein, as an important contribution to
the consolidation of the peace process through practical disarmament measures,

Taking into account the deliberations at the 2001 substantive session of the
Disarmament Commission in Working Group II on agenda item 5, entitled “Practical
confidence-building measures in the field of conventional arms”,124 and
encouraging the Disarmament Commission to continue its efforts aimed at the
identification of such measures,

__________________
121 A/55/985-S/2001/574 and Corr.1.
122 S/PRST/2001/21.
123 A/54/258.
124 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/56/42).



83

A/57/510

Welcoming the Programme of Action adopted by the United Nations
Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its
Aspects,125 which should be implemented expeditiously,

1. Stresses, in the context of the present resolution, the particular relevance
of the “Guidelines on conventional arms control/limitation and disarmament, with
particular emphasis on consolidation of peace in the context of General Assembly
resolution 51/45 N”,126 adopted by the Disarmament Commission by consensus at
its 1999 substantive session;

2. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the consolidation of
peace through practical disarmament measures, submitted pursuant to resolution
51/45 N,127 and once again encourages Member States, as well as regional
arrangements and agencies, to lend their support to the implementation of
recommendations contained therein;

3. Welcomes the activities undertaken by the group of interested States that
was formed in New York in March 1998, and invites the group to continue to
analyse lessons learned from previous disarmament and peace-building projects, as
well as to promote new practical disarmament measures to consolidate peace,
especially as undertaken or designed by affected States themselves;

4. Encourages Member States, including the group of interested States, to
lend their support to the Secretary-General, relevant international, regional and
subregional organizations, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the
United Nations, and non-governmental organizations in responding to requests by
Member States to collect and destroy small arms and light weapons in post-conflict
situations;

5. Thanks the Secretary-General for his report on the implementation of
resolution 56/24 P,128 taking into consideration the activities of the group of
interested States in this regard;

6. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations
study on disarmament and non-proliferation education;129

7. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
fifty-eighth session a report on the implementation of practical disarmament
measures, taking into consideration the activities of the group of interested States in
this regard;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Consolidation of peace through practical disarmament measures”.

__________________
125 See Report of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light

Weapons in All Its Aspects, New York, 9-20 July 2001 (A/CONF.192/15), para. 24.
126 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42

(A/54/42), annex III.
127 A/52/289.
128 A/57/210.
129 A/57/124.



84

A/57/510

Y
Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical
Weapons and on Their Destruction

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject of chemical weapons, in
particular resolution 56/24 K of 29 November 2001, adopted without a vote, in
which it noted with appreciation the ongoing work to achieve the objective and
purpose of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production,
Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction,130

Determined to achieve the effective prohibition of the development,
production, acquisition, transfer, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons and their
destruction,

Noting with satisfaction that since the adoption of resolution 56/24 K, two
additional States have ratified the Convention or acceded to it, bringing the total
number of States parties to the Convention to one hundred and forty-five,

1. Emphasizes the necessity of universal adherence to the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical
Weapons and on Their Destruction,130 and calls upon all States that have not yet
done so to become parties to the Convention without delay;

2. Notes with appreciation the ongoing work of the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to achieve the objective and purpose of the
Convention, to ensure the full implementation of its provisions, including those for
international verification of compliance with it, and to provide a forum for
consultation and cooperation among States parties;

3. Stresses the importance of the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons in verifying compliance with the provisions of the Convention as
well as in promoting the timely and efficient accomplishment of all its objectives;

4. Also stresses the vital importance of full and effective implementation of
and compliance with all provisions of the Convention;

5. Urges all States parties to the Convention to meet in full and on time
their obligations under the Convention and to support the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in its implementation activities;

6. Stresses the importance to the Convention that all possessors of chemical
weapons, chemical weapons production facilities or chemical weapons development
facilities, including previously declared possessor States, should be among the
States parties to the Convention, and welcomes progress to that end;

7. Welcomes the cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons within the framework of the
Relationship Agreement between the United Nations and the Organization, in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention;

__________________
130 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27

(A/47/27), appendix I.



85

A/57/510

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction”.

Z
Measures to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of
mass destruction

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the determination of the international community to combat
terrorism, as evident in relevant General Assembly and Security Council resolutions,

Deeply concerned by the growing risk of linkages between terrorism and
weapons of mass destruction, and in particular by the fact that terrorists may seek to
acquire weapons of mass destruction,

Acknowledging the consideration of issues relating to terrorism and weapons of
mass destruction by the Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters,131

Taking note of resolution GC(46)/RES/13, adopted on 20 September 2002 by
the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency at its forty-sixth
regular session,132 and the setting up of an Advisory Group on Security in the
Agency to advise the Director General on the Agency’s activities relating to nuclear
security,

Taking note also of the report of the Policy Working Group on the United
Nations and Terrorism,133

Mindful of the urgent need for addressing this threat to humanity within the
United Nations framework and through international cooperation,

Emphasizing that progress is urgently needed in the area of disarmament and
non-proliferation in order to help maintain international peace and security and to
contribute to global efforts against terrorism,

1. Calls upon all Member States to support international efforts to prevent
terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery;

2. Urges all Member States to take and strengthen national measures, as
appropriate, to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction, their
means of delivery and materials and technologies related to their manufacture, and
invites them to inform the Secretary-General, on a voluntary basis, of the measures
taken in this regard;

3. Encourages cooperation among and between Member States and relevant
regional and international organizations for strengthening national capacities in this
regard;

__________________
131 See A/57/335.
132 See International Atomic Energy Agency, Resolutions and Other Decisions of the General

Conference, Forty-sixth Regular Session, 16-20 September 2002 (GC(46)/RES/DEC (2002)).
133 A/57/273-S/2002/875, annex.



86

A/57/510

4. Requests the Secretary-General to compile a report on measures already
taken by international organizations on issues relating to the linkage between the
fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, to seek
the views of Member States on additional relevant measures for tackling the global
threat posed by terrorists acquiring weapons of mass destruction, and to report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session an
item entitled “Measures to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass
destruction”.

AA
Reducing nuclear danger

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious threat
to mankind and to the survival of civilization,

Reaffirming that any use or threat of use of nuclear weapons would constitute a
violation of the Charter of the United Nations,

Convinced that the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects would
seriously enhance the danger of nuclear war,

Convinced also that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of
nuclear weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

Considering that, until nuclear weapons cease to exist, it is imperative on the
part of the nuclear-weapon States to adopt measures that assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Considering also that the hair-trigger alert of nuclear weapons carries
unacceptable risks of unintentional or accidental use of nuclear weapons, which
would have catastrophic consequences for all mankind,

Emphasizing the imperative need to adopt measures to avoid accidental,
unauthorized or unexplained incidents arising from computer anomaly or other
technical malfunctions,

Conscious that limited steps relating to detargeting have been taken by the
nuclear-weapon States and that further practical, realistic and mutually reinforcing
steps are necessary to contribute to the improvement in the international climate for
negotiations leading to the elimination of nuclear weapons,

Mindful that reduction of tensions brought about by a change in nuclear
doctrines would positively impact on international peace and security and improve
the conditions for the further reduction and the elimination of nuclear weapons,

Reiterating the highest priority accorded to nuclear disarmament in the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly134 and by the
international community,

__________________
134 Resolution S-10/2.



87

A/57/510

Recalling that in the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on
the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons135 it is stated that there exists
an obligation for all States to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion
negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and
effective international control,

Recalling also the call in the United Nations Millennium Declaration136 to
seek to eliminate the dangers posed by weapons of mass destruction and the resolve
to strive for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear
weapons, including the possibility of convening an international conference to
identify ways of eliminating nuclear dangers,

1. Calls for a review of nuclear doctrines and, in this context, immediate
and urgent steps to reduce the risks of unintentional and accidental use of nuclear
weapons;

2. Requests the five nuclear-weapon States to take measures towards the
implementation of paragraph 1 of the present resolution;

3. Calls upon Member States to take the necessary measures to prevent the
proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects and to promote nuclear
disarmament, with the objective of eliminating nuclear weapons;

4. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General submitted pursuant to
paragraph 5 of General Assembly resolution 56/24 C of 29 November 2001;137

5. Requests the Secretary-General to intensify efforts and support initiatives
that would contribute towards the full implementation of the seven
recommendations identified in the report of the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Matters that would significantly reduce the risk of nuclear war,138 and also to
continue to encourage Member States to endeavour to create conditions that would
allow the emergence of an international consensus to hold an international
conference as proposed in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,136 to identify
ways of eliminating nuclear dangers, and to report thereon to the General Assembly
at its fifty-eighth session;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Reducing nuclear danger”.

BB
Follow-up to the advisory opinion of the International Court of
Justice on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 49/75 K of 15 December 1994, 51/45 M of
10 December 1996, 52/38 O of 9 December 1997, 53/77 W of 4 December 1998,

__________________
135 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion,

I.C.J. Reports 1996, p. 226.
136 See resolution 55/2.
137 A/57/401.
138 See A/56/400, para. 3.



88

A/57/510

54/54 Q of 1 December 1999, 55/33 X of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 S of
29 November 2001,

Convinced that the continuing existence of nuclear weapons poses a threat to
all humanity and that their use would have catastrophic consequences for all life on
Earth, and recognizing that the only defence against a nuclear catastrophe is the total
elimination of nuclear weapons and the certainty that they will never be produced
again,

Reaffirming the commitment of the international community to the goal of the
total elimination of nuclear weapons and the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free
world,

Mindful of the solemn obligations of States parties, undertaken in article VI of
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,139 particularly to pursue
negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear-
arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament,

Recalling the principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and
disarmament adopted at the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,140

Emphasizing the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon States to
accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear
disarmament, adopted at the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,141

Recalling the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty in its
resolution 50/245 of 10 September 1996, and expressing its satisfaction at the
increasing number of States that have signed and ratified the Treaty,

Recognizing with satisfaction that the Antarctic Treaty142 and the treaties of
Tlatelolco,143 Rarotonga,144 Bangkok145 and Pelindaba146 are gradually freeing the
entire southern hemisphere and adjacent areas covered by those treaties from nuclear
weapons,

Noting the signing of the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions, or the
Moscow Treaty,147 by the United States of America and the Russian Federation on
24 May 2002, following the demise of the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic
Missile Systems,148 and urging them to take further steps under the Moscow Treaty

__________________
139 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.
140 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of

Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex,
decision 2.

141 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II), part I, section entitled
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15:6.

142 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, No. 5778.
143 Ibid., vol. 634, No. 9068.
144 See The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 10:1985 (United Nations publication, Sales

No. E.86.IX.7), appendix VII.
145 Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone.
146 A/50/426, annex.
147 See CD/1674.
148 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 944, No. 13446.



89

A/57/510

as well as through bilateral arrangements or agreements and unilateral decisions
towards the irreversible reduction of their nuclear arsenals,

Stressing the importance of strengthening all existing nuclear-related
disarmament, arms control and reduction measures,

Recognizing the need for a multilaterally negotiated and legally binding
instrument to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the threat or use of nuclear
weapons,

Reaffirming the central role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, and regretting the lack of progress in
disarmament negotiations, particularly nuclear disarmament, in the Conference
during its 2002 session,

Emphasizing the need for the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiations on a phased programme for the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons with a specified framework of time,

Expressing its deep concern at the lack of progress in the implementation of
the thirteen steps to implement article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons agreed to at the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,149

Desiring to achieve the objective of a legally binding prohibition of the
development, production, testing, deployment, stockpiling, threat or use of nuclear
weapons and their destruction under effective international control,

Recalling the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued on 8 July 1996,150

Taking note of the relevant portions of the note by the Secretary-General
relating to the implementation of resolution 56/24 S, 151

1. Underlines once again the unanimous conclusion of the International
Court of Justice that there exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a
conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict
and effective international control;

2. Calls once again upon all States immediately to fulfil that obligation by
commencing multilateral negotiations leading to an early conclusion of a nuclear
weapons convention prohibiting the development, production, testing, deployment,
stockpiling, transfer, threat or use of nuclear weapons and providing for their
elimination;

3. Requests all States to inform the Secretary-General of the efforts and
measures they have taken on the implementation of the present resolution and
nuclear disarmament, and requests the Secretary-General to apprise the General
Assembly of that information at its fifty-eighth session;

__________________
149 See 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I, section entitled
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15.

150 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion,
I.C.J. Reports, 1996, p. 226.

151 A/57/95 and Add.1 and 2.



90

A/57/510

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Follow-up to the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice
on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons”.

CC
Compliance with arms limitation and disarmament and
non-proliferation agreements

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 52/30 of 9 December 1997 and other relevant
resolutions on the question,

Recognizing the abiding concern of all Member States for maintaining respect
for rights and obligations arising from treaties to which they are parties and other
sources of international law,

Convinced that observance by Member States of the Charter of the United
Nations, treaties to which they are parties and other sources of international law is
important for the strengthening of international security,

Mindful of the fundamental importance of full implementation and strict
observance of agreements and other agreed obligations on arms limitation and
disarmament and non-proliferation by States parties if individual nations and the
international community are to derive enhanced security from them,

Stressing that any violation of such agreements and other agreed obligations by
States parties not only adversely affects the security of States parties but can also
create security risks for other States relying on the constraints and commitments
stipulated in those agreements and other agreed obligations,

Stressing also that any weakening of confidence in such agreements and other
agreed obligations diminishes their contribution to global or regional security and
undermines their credibility and effectiveness,

Recognizing, in this context, that full compliance by States parties with all
provisions of existing agreements and the resolving of compliance concerns
effectively by means consistent with such agreements and international law can,
inter alia, contribute to better relations among States and the strengthening of world
peace and stability,

Believing that compliance with all provisions of arms limitation and
disarmament and non-proliferation agreements by States parties is a matter of
interest and concern to all members of the international community, and noting the
role the United Nations has played and should continue to play in that regard,

Welcoming the contribution to international peace and regional security that
full compliance by States parties with verification provisions of arms limitation and
disarmament and non-proliferation agreements provides,

Also welcoming the universal recognition of the critical importance of the
question of compliance with and verification of arms limitation and disarmament
and non-proliferation agreements, and other agreed obligations,



91

A/57/510

Recognizing, in the light of the threat of international terrorism, that it is
especially important that States parties comply with arms limitation and
disarmament and non-proliferation obligations and commitments,

1. Urges all States parties to arms limitation and disarmament and non-
proliferation agreements to implement and comply with the entirety of all provisions
of such agreements;

2. Calls upon all Member States to give serious consideration to the
implications that non-compliance by States parties with any provisions of
agreements in the fields of arms limitation and disarmament and non-proliferation
has for international security and stability, as well as for the prospects for progress
in those fields;

3. Also calls upon Member States to support efforts aimed at the resolution
of compliance questions by means consistent with such agreements and international
law, with a view to encouraging strict observance by all States parties of the
provisions of arms limitation and disarmament and non-proliferation agreements and
maintaining or restoring the integrity of such agreements;

4. Welcomes the role that the United Nations has played and continues to
play in restoring the integrity of, and fostering negotiations on, certain arms
limitation and disarmament and non-proliferation agreements and in the removal of
threats to peace;

5. Encourages efforts by all States parties to pursue additional areas of
cooperation, as appropriate, that can increase confidence in compliance with
existing arms limitation and disarmament and non-proliferation agreements and
reduce the possibility of misinterpretation and misunderstanding;

6. Notes the contribution that effective verification procedures for arms
limitation and disarmament and non-proliferation agreements frequently can make
in enhancing confidence in the compliance with those agreements;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session an
item entitled “Compliance with arms limitation and disarmament and non-
proliferation agreements”.

* * *

91. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

United Nations conference to identify ways of eliminating nuclear
dangers in the context of nuclear disarmament

The General Assembly decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-
eighth session an item entitled “United Nations conference to identify ways of
eliminating nuclear dangers in the context of nuclear disarmament”.


