











































Microsoft Word - UND_GEN_N0272109_DOCU_R


 United Nations  A/57/L.23/Rev.1*

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
4 December 2002 
 
Original: English 

 

 
02-72109* (E)    041202    041202 

*0272109* 

Fifty-seventh session 
Agenda item 22 (d) 
Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and other 
organizations: cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Council of Europe 
 
 
 

  Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican 
Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, 
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, 
Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Republic of 
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, 
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Yugoslavia: 
revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council 
of Europe 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling the Agreement between the Council of Europe and the Secretariat of 
the United Nations signed on 15 December 1951 and the Arrangement on 
Cooperation and Liaison between the secretariats of the United Nations and the 
Council of Europe of 19 November 1971, 

 Acknowledging the contribution of the Council of Europe to the protection and 
strengthening of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including 
protection of national minorities, and the rule of law on the European continent, 
including its activities against racism and intolerance, the promotion of gender 
equality, social development and a common cultural heritage, 

 Acknowledging also that, with its significant expertise in the field of human 
rights, democratic institutions and the rule of law, the Council of Europe is 
contributing to conflict prevention, confidence-building and long-term post-conflict 
peace-building through political, legal and institutional reform, 

 
 

 * Reissued for technical reasons. 



 

2  
 

A/57/L.23/Rev.1  

 Stressing the importance of adherence to the standards and principles of the 
Council of Europe and its contribution to the solution of conflicts throughout the 
whole of Europe, 

 Acknowledging the contribution of the Council of Europe to the development 
of international law, inter alia, international criminal law, 

 Noting the increasing openness of the Council of Europe, through its legal 
instruments, to the participation of States of other regions,  

 1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;1 

 2. Reiterates its appreciation for the ongoing fruitful cooperation and 
coordination between the United Nations and its agencies and the Council of 
Europe, both at the level of headquarters and in the field; 

 3. Welcomes the further development of close cooperation between the 
Council of Europe, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the 
United Nations Children’s Fund and the Economic Commission for Europe; 

 4. Notes the role the Council of Europe has played in facilitating the entry 
into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court2 and the 
Council’s readiness to provide its member States with the appropriate assistance 
with a view to their becoming parties to and implementing the Rome Statute; 

 5. Expresses its appreciation for the Council of Europe’s contribution to the 
implementation of the Programme of Action3 as adopted by the World Conference 
against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held at 
Durban, South Africa, from 31 August to 8 September 2001, including the follow-up 
action taken by the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance; 

 6. Notes the opening for signature on 3 May 2002 in Vilnius of “Protocol 
No. 13 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental 
Freedoms4 concerning the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances”; 

 7. Expresses its appreciation for the substantial contribution of the Council 
of Europe to the special session of the General Assembly on children, held from 8 to 
10 May 2002, and notes the adoption by the Council of the European Convention on 
the Exercise of Children’s Rights,5 which entered into force in 2000; 

 8. Also expresses its appreciation for the contributions of the Council of 
Europe to the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in 
Monterrey, Mexico, from 18 to 22 March 2002, and particularly to its follow-up 
process, through activities involving Governments, parliamentarians, local and 
regional authorities, and civil society organizations, aimed at turning the 
commitments made at the Conference into specific actions; 

 9. Further expresses its appreciation for the substantial contribution of the 
Council of Europe to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at 

__________________ 

 1  A/57/225. 
 2  A/CONF.183/9. 
 3  See A/CONF.189/12 (Part I), chap. I. 
 4  Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments, vol. II, Regional Instruments 

(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.XIV.1), sect. B, No. 8. 



 

 3 
 

 A/57/L.23/Rev.1

Johannesburg from 26 August to 4 September 2002, as well as its contributions to 
the follow-up work, for example, concerning education for sustainable development, 
carried out by its North-South Centre; 

 10. Commends strongly the contribution of the Council of Europe to the 
international action against terrorism, welcomes the work of the Council of Europe’s 
Multidisciplinary Group on International Action against Terrorism aimed, inter alia, 
at strengthening legal cooperation in the fight against terrorism, and in this context 
welcomes the approval by the Committee of Ministers at its one hundred and 
eleventh session of the content of the Draft Protocol amending the European 
Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism, which was opened for signature in 
1977; 

 11. Welcomes the assessment made by the Committee of Ministers at its one 
hundred and eleventh session, on 7 November 2002, on each of the three 
cornerstones they had defined in 2001 for the Council of Europe’s contribution to a 
United Nations-led international action against terrorism, namely, intensifying legal 
cooperation to combat terrorism, safeguarding fundamental values, and investing in 
democracy; 

 12. Commends the Council of Europe for its contribution to the 
implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and takes note in this 
context of the Council of Europe’s “Guidelines on Human Rights and the Fight 
against Terrorism”,6 adopted by its Committee of Ministers on 11 July 2002 and 
referred to in the addendum to the Secretary-General’s report on measures to 
eliminate international terrorism;7 

 13. Welcomes the accession to the Council of Europe of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina on 24 April 2002, and expresses its appreciation for the cooperation 
and assistance the Council extends to this country in order to facilitate its 
compliance with the Council’s standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of 
law; 

 14. Takes note of Opinion No. 239 adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly 
of the Council of Europe on 24 September 2002, in the which the Assembly 
recommended that the Committee of Ministers, on the basis of a series of 
commitments accepted by the highest Yugoslav authorities, invite the Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia to become a member of the Council as soon as the 
constitutional Charter had been adopted by the Parliaments of Serbia and 
Montenegro; 

 15. Notes that the Ministers of the forty-four member States at the one 
hundred and eleventh session, on 7 November 2002, reiterated their common will to 
see the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia become a member of the Council of Europe, 
while at the same time regretting that circumstances at present did not yet permit the 
adoption of an official invitation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to join the 
Council; 

 16. Welcomes the ongoing participation of the Council of Europe in the 
implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) of 10 June 1999 and its 

__________________ 

 5  Ibid., sect. B, No. 35. 
 6  A/57/313, annex I. 
 7  A/57/183/Add.1. 



 

4  
 

A/57/L.23/Rev.1  

cooperation with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, and 
commends the role of the Council of Europe in the development of democratic 
institutions, inter alia, in respect of the decentralization process, human rights 
protection and the rule of law in accordance with the standards of the Council of 
Europe; 

 17. Commends the role of the Council of Europe with regard to the electoral 
process in Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in preparation for the municipal 
elections on 26 October 2002; 

 18. Welcomes the substantial contribution of the Council of Europe to the 
Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, in particular in the fields of 
democratization, local democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as 
cross-border cooperation and the fight against corruption, organized crime and 
money-laundering; 

 19. Commends the wide-ranging efforts of the Council of Europe to foster 
peace and stability in South-Eastern Europe; 

 20. Welcomes the Vilnius Declaration on Regional Cooperation and the 
Consolidation of Democratic Stability in Greater Europe,8 adopted by the 
Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 3 May 2002, and the efforts of 
the Council to promote cooperation among the regional organizations, initiatives 
and processes in Europe and between them and the United Nations and other 
international organizations; 

 21. Commends the work of the Council of Europe in relation to the 
protection of national minorities, in particular the monitoring by the Committee of 
Ministers of the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of 
National Minorities;9 

 22. Reiterates its appreciation for the active role of the Council of Europe in 
the tripartite meetings between the United Nations, the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe and the Council; 

 23. Requests the Secretary-General to continue exploring, with the Secretary-
General of the Council of Europe, possibilities for further enhancement of 
cooperation, information exchange and coordination between the United Nations 
and the Council; 

 24. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session the 
sub-item entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of 
Europe”, and requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at 
its fifty-ninth session a report on cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Council of Europe in implementation of the present resolution. 

 

 

__________________ 

 8  A/56/942, annex II. 
 9  Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments, vol. II, Regional instruments 

(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.XIV.1), sect. B, No. 34. 


