












































United Nations A/58/477

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
22 October 2003

Original: English

03-57495 (E)    291003

*0357495*

Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 88

Economic and other activities which affect the interests
of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories

Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)

Rapporteur: Mr. Damien Cole (Ireland)

I. Introduction

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 19 September 2003, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its fifty-eighth session the item entitled “Economic and other activities which affect
the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories” and to allocate it
to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).

2. At its 1st meeting, on 29 September 2003, the Fourth Committee decided to
hold a general debate covering agenda items 19, 87, 88, 89 and 12, and 90. The
general debate on the items was held at the 2nd to 5th meetings, on 6, 7, 8 and
10 October (see A/C.4/58/SR.2-5). The Committee took action on item 88 at its 7th
meeting, on 14 October (see A/C.4/58/SR.7).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the relevant
chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples (A/58/23 (Part II), chap. V, and A/58/23 (Part III), chap.
XII).1

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 6 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he
gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 2003 (see

__________________
1 For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session,

Supplement No. 23.



2

A/58/477

A/C.4/58/SR.2). He also drew attention to chapters V and XII of the report of that
Committee (see A/58/23 (Parts II and III)).

II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in document
A/58/23 (Part III), chapter XII, section B

5. At its 7th meeting, on 14 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution entitled “Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”, contained in chapter XII, section B,
of the report of the Special Committee (see A/58/23 (Part III)), by a recorded vote of
135 to 2, with 2 abstentions (see para. 7). The voting was as follows:2

In favour:
Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Germany,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea,
Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia and Montenegro, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against:
Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining:
France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

6. After the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement in explanation of vote
was made by the representative of Argentina (see A/C.4/58/SR.7).

__________________
2 Subsequently, the delegation of Botswana indicated that, had it been present, it would have

voted in favour.



3

A/58/477

III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution:

Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled “Economic and other activities which
affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item,1

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, as well as all other
relevant Assembly resolutions including, in particular, resolutions 46/181 of 19
December 1991 and 55/146 of 8 December 2000,

Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their
administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those Territories
against abuses,

Reaffirming also that any economic or other activity that has a negative impact
on the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and on the
exercise of their right to self-determination in conformity with the Charter of the
United Nations and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) is contrary to the
purposes and principles of the Charter,

Reaffirming further that the natural resources are the heritage of the peoples of
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, including the indigenous populations,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location, size and
economic conditions of each Territory, and bearing in mind the need to promote the
economic stability, diversification and strengthening of the economy of each
Territory,

Conscious of the particular vulnerability of the small Territories to natural
disasters and environmental degradation,

Conscious also that foreign economic investment, when undertaken in
collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in
accordance with their wishes, could make a valid contribution to the socio-economic
development of the Territories and also to the exercise of their right to self-
determination,

__________________
1 A/58/23 (Part II), chap. V. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly,

Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 23.



4

A/58/477

Concerned about any activities aimed at exploiting the natural and human
resources of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to the detriment of the interests of
the inhabitants of those Territories,

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the African Union, the Pacific Islands Forum and the Caribbean Community,

1. Reaffirms the right of peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-
determination in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and with
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), containing the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as well as their right to the
enjoyment of their natural resources and their right to dispose of those resources in
their best interest;

2. Affirms the value of foreign economic investment undertaken in
collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in
accordance with their wishes in order to make a valid contribution to the socio-
economic development of the Territories;

3. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancement of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and reaffirms the
legitimate rights of their peoples over their natural resources;

4. Reaffirms its concern about any activities aimed at the exploitation of the
natural resources that are the heritage of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing
Territories, including the indigenous populations, in the Caribbean, the Pacific and
other regions, and of their human resources, to the detriment of their interests, and
in such a way as to deprive them of their right to dispose of those resources;

5. Affirms the need to avoid any economic and other activities that
adversely affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

6. Calls once again upon all Governments that have not yet done so to take,
in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolution 2621
(XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other measures in respect
of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that own and
operate enterprises in the Non-Self-Governing Territories that are detrimental to the
interests of the inhabitants of those Territories, in order to put an end to such
enterprises;

7. Reiterates that the damaging exploitation and plundering of the marine
and other natural resources of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, in violation of the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations, are a threat to the integrity and prosperity
of those Territories;

8. Invites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations system
to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty of the peoples
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories over their natural resources is fully respected
and safeguarded in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations
on decolonization;



5

A/58/477

9. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories to their natural resources and to establish and maintain control
over the future development of those resources, and requests the administering
Powers to take all necessary steps to protect the property rights of the peoples of
those Territories in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations
on decolonization;

10. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no
discriminatory working conditions prevail in the Territories under their
administration and to promote in each Territory a fair system of wages applicable to
all the inhabitants without any discrimination;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to continue, through all means at his
disposal, to inform world public opinion of any activity that affects the exercise of
the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination
in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV);

12. Appeals to the mass media, trade unions and non-governmental
organizations, as well as individuals, to continue their efforts to promote the
economic well-being of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

13. Decides to follow the situation in the Non-Self-Governing Territories so
as to ensure that all economic activities in those Territories are aimed at
strengthening and diversifying their economies in the interest of their peoples,
including the indigenous populations, and at promoting the economic and financial
viability of those Territories;

14. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon to
the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session.


