











































Microsoft Word - 0560762e.doc


United Nations A/60/459

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
16 November 2005

Original: English

05-60762 (E)    211105

*0560762*

Sixtieth session
Agenda item 93

Role of science and technology in the context of
international security and disarmament

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Ms. Elvina Jusufaj (Albania)

I. Introduction

1. The item entitled “Role of science and technology in the context of
international security and disarmament” was included in the provisional agenda of
the sixtieth session of the General Assembly in accordance with Assembly
resolution 59/62 of 3 December 2004.

2. At its 17th plenary meeting, on 20 September 2005, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 1st meeting, on 29 September 2005, the First Committee decided to hold
a general debate on all disarmament and international security items allocated to it,
namely, items 85 to 105, which was held at the 2nd to 7th meetings, from 3 to
7 October (see A/C.1/60/PV.2-7). Thematic discussions on the items were held, and
draft resolutions were introduced and considered, at the 8th to 17th meetings, from
10 to 14 and from 17 to 21 October (see A/C.1/60/PV.8-17). Action on all draft
resolutions was taken at the 18th to 23rd meetings, from 24 to 26 and on 28 and
31 October and 1 November (see A/C.1/60/PV.18-23).

4. No documents were submitted for consideration under this item.

II. Consideration of draft resolution A/C.1/60/L.53

5. At the 14th meeting, on 18 October, the representative of India, on behalf of
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, the Congo, Cuba, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic, Fiji, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kenya, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,



2

A/60/459

Mauritius, Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Viet Nam and
Zambia, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Role of science and technology in
the context of international security and disarmament” (A/C.1/60/L.53).
Subsequently, Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Guyana and Zimbabwe joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

6. At its 18th meeting, on 24 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/60/L.53 by a recorded vote of 88 to 49, with 13 abstentions (see para. 7). The
voting was as follows:

In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela
(Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against:
Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia and Montenegro,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining:
Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Brazil, Chile, Kazakhstan, Paraguay,
Russian Federation, South Africa, Ukraine, Uruguay, Uzbekistan.



3

A/60/459

III. Recommendation of the First Committee

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Role of science and technology in the context of international
security and disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recognizing that scientific and technological developments can have both
civilian and military applications and that progress in science and technology for
civilian applications needs to be maintained and encouraged,

Concerned that military applications of scientific and technological
developments can contribute significantly to the improvement and upgrading of
advanced weapons systems and, in particular, weapons of mass destruction,

Aware of the need to follow closely the scientific and technological
developments that may have a negative impact on international security and
disarmament, and to channel scientific and technological developments for
beneficial purposes,

Cognizant that international transfers of dual-use as well as high-technology
products, services and know-how for peaceful purposes are important for the
economic and social development of States,

Also cognizant of the need to regulate such transfers of dual-use goods and
technologies and high technology with military applications through multilaterally
negotiated, universally applicable, non-discriminatory guidelines,

Expressing its concern about the growing proliferation of ad hoc and exclusive
export control regimes and arrangements for dual-use goods and technologies,
which tend to impede the economic and social development of developing countries,

Recalling that in the Final Document of the Thirteenth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Kuala Lumpur from 20 to
25 February 2003,1 it was again noted with concern that undue restrictions on
exports to developing countries of material, equipment and technology for peaceful
purposes persisted,

Emphasizing that internationally negotiated guidelines for the transfer of high
technology with military applications should take into account the legitimate
defence requirements of all States and the requirements for the maintenance of
international peace and security, while ensuring that access to high-technology
products and services and know-how for peaceful purposes is not denied,

1. Affirms that scientific and technological progress should be used for the
benefit of all mankind to promote the sustainable economic and social development
of all States and to safeguard international security, and that international
cooperation in the use of science and technology through the transfer and exchange
of technological know-how for peaceful purposes should be promoted;

__________________
1 A/57/759-S/2003/332, annex I.



4

A/60/459

2. Invites Member States to undertake additional efforts to apply science
and technology for disarmament-related purposes and to make disarmament-related
technologies available to interested States;

3. Urges Member States to undertake multilateral negotiations with the
participation of all interested States in order to establish universally acceptable,
non-discriminatory guidelines for international transfers of dual-use goods and
technologies and high technology with military applications;

4. Encourages United Nations bodies to contribute, within existing
mandates, to promoting the application of science and technology for peaceful
purposes;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the
item entitled “Role of science and technology in the context of international security
and disarmament”.


