






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/61/L.30

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
22 November 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-62850 (E)    291106     
*0662850* 

Sixty-first session 
Agenda item 71 (a) 
Oceans and the law of the sea 

 
 
 

  Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, Cape Verde, Cyprus, Finland, Greece, 
Iceland, Italy, Jamaica, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Namibia, New Zealand, Norway, 
Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tonga and United States of America: draft resolution 
 
 

  Oceans and the law of the sea 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 49/28 of 6 December 1994, 52/26 of 26 November 
1997, 54/33 of 24 November 1999, 57/141 of 12 December 2002, 58/240 of 
23 December 2003, 59/24 of 17 November 2004, 60/30 of 29 November 2005 and 
other relevant resolutions concerning the United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the Sea (“the Convention”),1 

 Having considered the report of the Secretary-General,2 the addendum 
thereto,3 the report of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group to study 
issues relating to the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction4 and also the reports on the work of the United 
Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the 
Sea (“the Consultative Process”) at its seventh meeting5 and on the sixteenth 
Meeting of States Parties to the Convention,6 

 Emphasizing the pre-eminent contribution provided by the Convention to the 
strengthening of peace, security, cooperation and friendly relations among all 
nations in conformity with the principles of justice and equal rights and to the 
promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples of the world, in 
accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations as set forth in the 
Charter of the United Nations, as well as for the sustainable development of the 
oceans and seas, 

__________________ 

 1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1833, No. 31363. 
 2  A/61/63. 
 3  A/61/63/Add.1. 
 4  A/61/65. 
 5  A/61/156. 
 6  SPLOS/148. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 2 
 

 Emphasizing also the universal and unified character of the Convention, and 
reaffirming that the Convention sets out the legal framework within which all 
activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out and is of strategic importance as 
the basis for national, regional and global action and cooperation in the marine 
sector, and that its integrity needs to be maintained, as recognized also by the United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development in chapter 17 of Agenda 21,7 

 Recognizing the important contribution of sustainable development and 
management of the resources and uses of the oceans and seas to the achievement of 
international development goals, including those contained in the United Nations 
Millennium Declaration,8 

 Conscious that the problems of ocean space are closely interrelated and need 
to be considered as a whole through an integrated, interdisciplinary and intersectoral 
approach, and reaffirming the need to improve cooperation and coordination at the 
national, regional and global levels, in accordance with the Convention, to support 
and supplement the efforts of each State in promoting the implementation and 
observance of the Convention, and the integrated management and sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas,  

 Reiterating the essential need for cooperation, including through capacity-
building and transfer of marine technology, to ensure that all States, especially 
developing countries, in particular the least developed countries and small island 
developing States, as well as coastal African States, are able both to implement the 
Convention and to benefit from the sustainable development of the oceans and seas, 
as well as to participate fully in global and regional forums and processes dealing 
with oceans and law of the sea issues,  

 Emphasizing the need to strengthen the ability of competent international 
organizations to contribute, at the global, regional, subregional and bilateral levels, 
through cooperation programmes with Governments, to the development of national 
capacity in marine science and the sustainable management of the oceans and their 
resources,  

 Recalling that marine science is important for eradicating poverty, contributing 
to food security, conserving the world’s marine environment and resources, helping 
to understand, predict and respond to natural events and promoting the sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas, by improving knowledge, through sustained 
research efforts and the evaluation of monitoring results, and applying such 
knowledge to management and decision-making,  

 Recalling also its decision, in resolutions 57/141 and 58/240, to establish a 
regular process under the United Nations for global reporting and assessment of the 
state of the marine environment, including socio-economic aspects, both current and 
foreseeable, building on existing regional assessments, as recommended by the 
World Summit on Sustainable Development,9 and noting the need for cooperation 
among all States to this end, 

__________________ 

 7  Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro,  
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, 
Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex II. 

 8  See resolution 55/2. 
 9  Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 

26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and 
corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex, para. 36 (b). 



 A/61/L.30

 

3 06-62850 
 

 Reiterating its concern at the adverse impacts on the marine environment and 
biodiversity, in particular on vulnerable marine ecosystems, including corals, of 
human activities, such as overutilization of living marine resources, the use of 
destructive practices, physical impacts by ships, the introduction of alien invasive 
species and marine pollution from all sources, including from land-based sources 
and vessels, in particular through the illegal discharge of oil and other harmful 
substances, the loss or release of fishing gear and the dumping of hazardous waste 
such as radioactive materials, nuclear waste and dangerous chemicals,  

 Expressing its concern over the projected adverse effects of anthropogenic and 
natural climate change and ocean acidification on the marine environment and 
marine biodiversity, 

 Recognizing that there is a need for a more integrated approach and to further 
study and promote measures for enhanced cooperation and coordination relating to 
the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national 
jurisdiction, 

 Recognizing also that the realization of the benefits of the Convention could be 
enhanced by international cooperation, technical assistance and advanced scientific 
knowledge, as well as by funding and capacity-building, 

 Recognizing further that hydrographic surveys and nautical charting are 
critical to the safety of navigation and life at sea, environmental protection, 
including the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems, and the economics of the 
global shipping industry, and recognizing in this regard that the move towards 
electronic charting not only provides significantly increased benefits for safe 
navigation and management of ship movement, but also provides data and 
information that can be used for sustainable fisheries activities and other sectoral 
uses of the marine environment, the delimitation of maritime boundaries and 
environmental protection, 

 Noting with concern the continuing problem of transnational organized crime 
and threats to maritime safety and security, including piracy, armed robbery at sea, 
smuggling and terrorist acts against shipping, offshore installations and other 
maritime interests, and noting the deplorable loss of life and adverse impact on 
international trade, energy security and the global economy resulting from such 
activities,  

 Reaffirming the importance of the work of the Commission on the Limits of 
the Continental Shelf (“the Commission”) for coastal States and the international 
community as a whole, 

 Noting the important role of the Commission in assisting States parties in the 
implementation of Part VI of the Convention, through the examination of 
information submitted by coastal States regarding the outer limits of the continental 
shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, 

 Recognizing the importance and the contribution of the work over the past 
seven years of the Consultative Process established by resolution 54/33 to facilitate 
the annual review of developments in ocean affairs by the General Assembly and 
extended by resolutions 57/141 and 60/30, 

 Noting the responsibilities of the Secretary-General under the Convention and 
related resolutions of the General Assembly, in particular resolutions 49/28, 52/26 
and 54/33, and in this context the increase in activities of the Division for Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat (“the 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 4 
 

Division”), in particular in view of the growing number of requests to the Division 
for additional outputs and servicing of meetings, the increasing capacity-building 
activities and assistance to the Commission, and the role of the Division in inter-
agency coordination and cooperation,  

 Emphasizing that underwater archaeological, cultural and historical heritage, 
including shipwrecks and watercrafts, holds essential information on the history of 
humankind and that such heritage is a resource that needs to be protected and 
preserved, 

 Reaffirming the importance of the work of the International Seabed Authority 
(“the Authority”) in accordance with the Convention and the Agreement relating to 
the Implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 (“the Agreement”),10 
 

  I. Implementation of the Convention and related agreements and instruments 
 

 1. Reaffirms its resolutions 49/28, 52/26, 54/33, 57/141, 58/240, 59/24, 
60/30 and other relevant resolutions concerning the Convention;1 

 2. Also reaffirms the unified character of the Convention and the vital 
importance of preserving its integrity;  

 3. Calls upon all States that have not done so, in order to achieve the goal 
of universal participation, to become parties to the Convention and the Agreement;10 

 4. Calls upon all States that have not done so, in order to achieve the goal 
of universal participation, to become parties to the Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks (“the Fish Stocks 
Agreement”);11 

 5. Calls upon States to harmonize, as a matter of priority, their national 
legislation with the provisions of the Convention and, where applicable, relevant 
agreements and instruments, to ensure the consistent application of those provisions 
and to ensure also that any declarations or statements that they have made or make 
when signing, ratifying or acceding to the Convention do not purport to exclude or 
to modify the legal effect of the provisions of the Convention in their application to 
the State concerned and to withdraw any such declarations or statements;  

 6. Calls upon States parties to the Convention to deposit with the Secretary-
General charts or lists of geographical coordinates, as provided for in the 
Convention;  

 7. Urges all States to cooperate, directly or through competent international 
bodies, in taking measures to protect and preserve objects of an archaeological and 
historical nature found at sea, in conformity with the Convention, and calls upon 
States to work together on such diverse challenges and opportunities as the 
appropriate relationship between salvage law and scientific management and 
conservation of underwater cultural heritage, increasing technological abilities to 
discover and reach underwater sites, looting and growing underwater tourism;  

__________________ 

 10  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1836, No. 31364. 
 11  Ibid., vol. 2167, No. 37924. 



 A/61/L.30

 

5 06-62850 
 

 8. Notes the effort made by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
Cultural Organization with respect to the preservation of underwater cultural 
heritage, and notes in particular the rules annexed to the 2001 Convention on the 
Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage12 that address the relationship 
between salvage law and scientific principles of management, conservation and 
protection of underwater cultural heritage among parties, their nationals and vessels 
flying their flag;  
 

  II. Capacity-building 
 

 9. Calls upon donor agencies and international financial institutions to keep 
their programmes systematically under review to ensure the availability in all States, 
particularly in developing States, of the economic, legal, navigational, scientific and 
technical skills necessary for the full implementation of the Convention and the 
objectives of the present resolution, as well as the sustainable development of the 
oceans and seas nationally, regionally and globally, and in so doing to bear in mind 
the interests and needs of landlocked developing States;  

 10. Encourages intensified efforts to build capacity for developing countries, 
in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing States, as 
well as coastal African States, to improve hydrographic services and the production 
of nautical charts, including electronic charts, as well as the mobilization of 
resources and building of capacity with support from international financial 
institutions and the donor community;  

 11. Calls upon States and international financial institutions, including 
through bilateral, regional and global cooperation programmes and technical 
partnerships, to continue to strengthen capacity-building activities, in particular in 
developing countries, in the field of marine scientific research by, inter alia, training 
personnel to develop and enhance relevant expertise, providing the necessary 
equipment, facilities and vessels and transferring environmentally sound 
technologies;  

 12. Recognizes the need to build the capacity of developing States to raise 
awareness of, and support implementation of, improved waste management 
practices, noting the particular vulnerability of small island developing States to the 
impact of marine pollution from land-based sources and marine debris;  

 13. Also recognizes the importance of assisting developing States, in 
particular the least developed countries and small island developing States, as well 
as coastal African States, in implementing the Convention, and urges States, 
intergovernmental organizations and agencies, national institutions, non-
governmental organizations and international financial institutions, as well as 
natural and juridical persons, to make voluntary financial or other contributions to 
the trust funds, as referred to in resolution 57/141, established for this purpose;  

 14. Encourages States to use the Criteria and Guidelines on the Transfer of 
Marine Technology, adopted by the Assembly of the Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic Commission of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 

__________________ 

 12  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records of the General 
Conference, Thirty-first Session, Paris, 15 October-3 November 2001, vol. 1 and corrigendum: 
Resolutions, resolution 24, annex. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 6 
 

Cultural Organization,13 and recalls the important role of the secretariat of the 
International Oceanographic Commission in the implementation and promotion of 
those Criteria and Guidelines; 

 15. Also encourages States to assist developing States, and especially the 
least developed countries and small island developing States, as well as coastal 
African States, at the bilateral level and, where appropriate, multilateral level, in the 
preparation of submissions to the Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf regarding the establishment of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 
200 nautical miles, including the assessment of the nature and extent of the 
continental shelf of a coastal State through a desktop study, and the delineation of 
the outer limits of its continental shelf;  

 16. Notes with appreciation the successful conduct by the Division of 
regional training courses, most recently held in Accra from 5 to 9 December 2005 
and in Buenos Aires from 8 to 12 May 2006, the purpose of which was to train 
technical staff of coastal developing States in the delineation of the outer limits of 
the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles and in the preparation of 
submissions to the Commission, and requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation 
with States and relevant international organizations and institutions, to continue 
making such training courses available; 

 17. Also notes with appreciation the first regional workshop of the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (“the Tribunal”), held in Dakar from 
31 October to 2 November 2006 on the role of the International Tribunal for the 
Law of the Sea in the settlement of disputes relating to the law of the sea in West 
Africa; 

 18. Invites Member States and others in a position to do so to support the 
capacity-building activities of the Division, including, in particular, the training 
activities to assist developing States in the preparation of their submissions to the 
Commission, and invites Member States and others in a position to do so to 
contribute to the trust fund established by the Secretary-General for the Office of 
Legal Affairs of the Secretariat to support the promotion of international law; 

 19. Recognizes the importance of the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe 
Memorial Fellowship on the Law of the Sea, advises the Secretary-General to 
continue to finance the Fellowship from resources made available through an 
appropriate Office of Legal Affairs trust fund, and urges Member States and others 
in a position to do so to contribute to the further development of the Fellowship; 

 20. Takes note with satisfaction of the ongoing implementation of the United 
Nations and the Nippon Foundation Fellowship Programme, focusing on human 
resources development for developing coastal States parties and non-parties to the 
Convention in the field of ocean affairs and the law of the sea or related disciplines; 
 

  III. Meeting of States Parties 
 

 21. Welcomes the report of the sixteenth Meeting of States Parties to the 
Convention;6 

__________________ 

 13  See Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, document IOC/INF-1203.  



 A/61/L.30

 

7 06-62850 
 

 22. Requests the Secretary-General to convene the seventeenth Meeting of 
States Parties to the Convention in New York on 14 and from 18 to 22 June 2007, 
bearing in mind that the current term of office of the members of the Commission 
expires on 15 June 2007, and to provide the services required; 

 23. Calls upon States Parties to transmit to the Secretariat the credentials of 
representatives attending the Meeting as far in advance as is practicable, and no 
later than 13 June 2007; 
 

  IV. Peaceful settlement of disputes 
 

 24. Notes with satisfaction the continued and significant contribution of the 
Tribunal to the settlement of disputes by peaceful means in accordance with Part XV 
of the Convention, and underlines the important role and authority of the Tribunal 
concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention and the Agreement; 

 25. Equally pays tribute to the important and long-standing role of the 
International Court of Justice with regard to the peaceful settlement of disputes 
concerning the law of the sea; 

 26. Notes that States parties to an international agreement related to the 
purposes of the Convention may submit to, inter alia, the Tribunal or the 
International Court of Justice any dispute concerning the interpretation or 
application of that agreement submitted in accordance with that agreement, and 
notes also the possibility, provided for in the statutes of the Tribunal and the Court, 
to submit disputes to a chamber; 

 27. Encourages States parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to 
consider making a written declaration choosing from the means set out in article 287 
of the Convention for the settlement of disputes concerning the interpretation or 
application of the Convention and the Agreement, bearing in mind the 
comprehensive character of the dispute settlement mechanism provided for in Part 
XV of the Convention; 
 

  V. The Area 
 

 28. Notes the progress of the discussions on issues relating to the regulations 
for prospecting and exploration for polymetallic sulphides and cobalt-rich 
ferromanganese crusts in the Area, and reiterates the importance of the ongoing 
elaboration by the Authority, pursuant to article 145 of the Convention, of rules, 
regulations and procedures to ensure the effective protection of the marine 
environment, the protection and conservation of the natural resources of the Area 
and the prevention of damage to its flora and fauna from harmful effects that may 
arise from activities in the Area;  

 29. Takes note with satisfaction of the contract signed on 19 July 2006 
between Germany and the Authority regarding the exploration of polymetallic 
nodules in an area in the Pacific Ocean; 

 30. Notes the importance of the responsibilities entrusted to the Authority by 
articles 143 and 145 of the Convention, which refer to marine scientific research and 
protection of the marine environment respectively;  
 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 8 
 

  VI. Effective functioning of the Authority and the Tribunal 
 

 31. Appeals to all States parties to the Convention to pay their assessed 
contributions to the Authority and to the Tribunal in full and on time, and also 
appeals to States parties in arrears with their contributions to fulfil their obligations 
without delay; 

 32. Urges all States parties to the Convention to attend the sessions of the 
Authority, and calls upon the Authority to continue to pursue all options, including 
the issue of dates, in order to improve attendance in Kingston and to ensure global 
participation;  

 33. Calls upon States that have not done so to consider ratifying or acceding 
to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Tribunal14 and to the 
Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Authority;15 

 34. Emphasizes the importance of the Tribunal’s Rules and Staff Regulations 
promoting the recruitment of a geographically representative staff in the 
Professional and higher categories, and calls for wider dissemination of vacancy 
announcements to achieve that goal; 
 

  VII. The continental shelf and the work of the Commission 
 

 35. Encourages States parties to the Convention that are in a position to do 
so to make every effort to submit information to the Commission regarding the 
establishment of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, 
in conformity with article 76 of the Convention and article 4 of annex II to the 
Convention, taking into account the decision of the eleventh Meeting of States 
Parties to the Convention;16 

 36. Notes with satisfaction the progress in the work of the Commission,17 
that it is giving current consideration to five submissions that have been made 
regarding the establishment of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 
nautical miles and that a number of States have advised of their intention to make 
submissions in the near future; 

 37. Notes that the anticipated heavy workload of the Commission, owing to 
an increasing number of submissions, places additional demands on its members and 
the Division, and in that regard emphasizes the need to ensure that the Commission 
can perform its functions effectively and maintain its high level of quality and 
expertise; 

 38. Emphasizes the need to maintain, to the extent possible given the term of 
office of the members of the Commission, continuity in the composition of 
subcommissions throughout the consideration of a submission; 

 39. Takes note of the decision of the sixteenth Meeting of States Parties18 to 
the Convention to address, as a matter of priority, issues related to the workload of 
the Commission and funding for its members attending the sessions of the 
Commission and the meetings of the subcommissions; 

__________________ 

 14  SPLOS/25. 
 15  ISBA/4/A/8, annex. 
 16  SPLOS/72. 
 17  CLCS/50 and CLCS/52. 
 18  SPLOS/144. 



 A/61/L.30

 

9 06-62850 
 

 40. Calls upon States whose experts are serving on the Commission to do 
their utmost to ensure the full participation of those experts in the work of the 
Commission, including the meetings of subcommissions, in accordance with the 
Convention; 

 41. Endorses the call by the Meeting of States Parties to the Convention to 
strengthen the Division, serving as the secretariat of the Commission, for the 
purpose of enhancing its technical support for the Commission; 

 42. Urges the Secretary-General to continue to take all necessary actions to 
ensure that the Commission can fulfil the functions entrusted to it under the 
Convention; 

 43. Encourages States to make additional contributions to the voluntary trust 
fund established by resolution 55/7 of 30 October 2000, for the purpose of 
facilitating the preparation of submissions to the Commission for developing States, 
in particular the least developed countries and small island developing States, and 
compliance with article 76 of the Convention; 

 44. Expresses its concern regarding the resources available in the voluntary 
trust fund established by resolution 55/7 for the purpose of defraying the cost of 
participation of the members of the Commission from developing States in the 
meetings of the Commission, and urges States to make additional contributions to 
the trust fund; 

 45. Approves the convening by the Secretary-General of the nineteenth and 
twentieth sessions of the Commission in New York from 5 March to 13 April 2007 
and from 20 August to 7 September 2007, respectively, on the understanding that the 
following periods will be used for the technical examination of submissions at the 
Geographic Information System laboratories and other technical facilities of the 
Division: 5 to 23 March, 9 to 13 April, 20 to 24 August and 4 to 7 September 2007; 

 46. Expresses its firm conviction about the importance of the work of the 
Commission, carried out in accordance with the Convention, including with respect 
to the participation of the coastal State in relevant proceedings concerning its 
submission;  

 47. Notes with satisfaction the amendments to rule 52 and annex III to the 
rules of procedure of the Commission,19 and recognizes the continued need for 
active interaction between submitting States and the Commission; 

 48. Encourages States to continue exchanging views in order to increase 
understanding of issues, including expenditures involved, arising from the 
application of article 76 of the Convention, thus facilitating preparation of 
submissions by States, in particular developing States, to the Commission; 

 49. Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Member States, 
to continue supporting and organizing workshops or symposiums on scientific and 
technical aspects of the establishment of the outer limits of the continental shelf 
beyond 200 nautical miles, taking into account the deadline for submissions, and 
welcomes initiatives of States in coordination with the United Nations, such as the 
International Symposium held in Tokyo on 6 and 7 March 2006; 

__________________ 

 19  CLCS/50, paras. 36 and 43. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 10 
 

  VIII. Maritime safety and security and flag State implementation 
 

 50. Encourages States to ratify or accede to international agreements 
addressing the safety and security of navigation and to adopt the necessary measures 
consistent with the Convention, aimed at implementing and enforcing the rules 
contained in those agreements;  

 51. Welcomes the adoption of the consolidated Maritime Labour Convention 
by the International Labour Conference on 23 February 2006, and encourages States 
to become parties to that Convention; 

 52. Also welcomes the adoption and continuing review by the International 
Maritime Organization and the International Labour Organization of Guidelines on 
Fair Treatment of Seafarers in the Event of a Maritime Accident,20 and encourages 
States to implement the Guidelines; 

 53. Calls upon States to consider becoming members of the International 
Hydrographic Organization, and urges all States to work with that Organization to 
increase the coverage of hydrographic information on a global basis to enhance 
capacity-building and technical assistance and to promote safe navigation, 
especially in areas used for international navigation, ports and where there are 
vulnerable or protected marine areas; 

 54. Encourages States to draw up plans and to establish procedures to 
implement the Guidelines on Places of Refuge for Ships in Need of Assistance;21 

 55. Notes the progress in the implementation of the Action Plan for the 
Safety of Transport of Radioactive Material, approved by the Board of Governors of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency in March 2004,22 and encourages States 
concerned to continue their efforts in the implementation of all areas of the Action 
Plan; 

 56. Also notes that cessation of the transport of radioactive materials through 
the regions of small island developing States is an ultimate desired goal of small 
island developing States and some other countries, and recognizes the right of 
freedom of navigation in accordance with international law; that States should 
maintain dialogue and consultation, in particular under the aegis of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency and the International Maritime Organization, with the aim of 
improved mutual understanding, confidence-building and enhanced communication 
in relation to the safe maritime transport of radioactive materials; that States 
involved in the transport of such materials are urged to continue to engage in 
dialogue with small island developing States and other States to address their 
concerns; and that these concerns include the further development and 
strengthening, within the appropriate forums, of international regulatory regimes to 
enhance safety, disclosure, liability, security and compensation in relation to such 
transport;23 

__________________ 

 20  Adopted by the International Maritime Organization Legal Committee on 27 April 2006 as 
resolution LEG.3(91), and by the International Labour Organization Governing Body on 12 June 
2006 at its 296th session. 

 21  International Maritime Organization, Assembly resolution A.949(23). 
 22  Available at www-ns.iaea.org. 
 23  Resolution 60/1, para. 56 (o). 



 A/61/L.30

 

11 06-62850 
 

 57. Encourages States to cooperate to address threats to maritime safety and 
security, including piracy, armed robbery at sea, smuggling and terrorist acts against 
shipping, offshore installations and other maritime interests, through bilateral and 
multilateral instruments and mechanisms aimed at monitoring, preventing and 
responding to such threats;  

 58. Urges all States, in cooperation with the International Maritime 
Organization, to combat piracy and armed robbery at sea by adopting measures, 
including those relating to assistance with capacity-building through training of 
seafarers, port staff and enforcement personnel in the prevention, reporting and 
investigation of incidents, bringing the alleged perpetrators to justice, in accordance 
with international law, and by adopting national legislation, as well as providing 
enforcement vessels and equipment and guarding against fraudulent ship 
registration;  

 59. Calls upon States to become parties to the Convention for the 
Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation and the 
Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Fixed Platforms 
Located on the Continental Shelf,24 invites States to consider becoming parties to 
the 2005 Protocols amending those instruments,25 and also urges States parties to 
take appropriate measures to ensure the effective implementation of those 
instruments, through the adoption of legislation, where appropriate;  

 60. Also calls upon States to effectively implement the International Ship and 
Port Facility Security Code and related amendments to the International Convention 
for the Safety of Life at Sea,26 and to work with the International Maritime 
Organization to promote safe and secure shipping while ensuring freedom of 
navigation; 

 61. Takes note of the adoption by the International Maritime Organization of 
amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea27 
introducing the long-range identification and tracking of ships system; 

 62. Notes the work of the International Maritime Organization with regard to 
the preparation of the wreck removal convention for the prompt and effective 
removal of wrecks which may pose a hazard to navigation or the marine 
environment; 

 63. Requests States to take appropriate measures with regard to ships flying 
their flag or of their registry to address hazards that may be caused by wrecks and 
drifting or sunken cargo to navigation or the marine environment; 

 64. Urges all States, in cooperation with the International Maritime 
Organization, to improve the protection of offshore installations by adopting 
measures related to the prevention, reporting and investigation of acts of violence 
against installations, in accordance with international law, and by implementing 
such measures through national legislation to ensure proper and adequate 
enforcement; 

__________________ 

 24  International Maritime Organization publication, Sales No. 462.88.12.E. 
 25  International Maritime Organization, documents LEG/CONF.15/21 and LEG/CONF.15/22. 
 26  Ibid., documents SOLAS/CONF.5/32 and 34. 
 27  Resolution MSC.202(81) in document MSC 81/25/Add.1, annex 2. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 12 
 

 65. Calls upon States to ensure freedom of navigation and the rights of 
transit passage and innocent passage in accordance with international law, in 
particular the Convention; 

 66. Welcomes the work of the International Maritime Organization relating to 
the protection of shipping lanes of strategic importance and significance, and in 
particular in enhancing safety, security and environmental protection in straits used 
for international navigation, and calls upon the International Maritime Organization, 
States bordering straits and user States to continue their cooperation efforts to keep 
such straits safe and open to international navigation at all times, consistent with 
international law, in particular the Convention; 

 67. Calls upon user States and States bordering straits for international 
navigation to cooperate by agreement on matters relating to navigational safety, 
including safety aids for navigation, and the prevention, reduction and control of 
pollution from ships; 

 68. Welcomes the progress in regional cooperation, including the Jakarta and 
Kuala Lumpur Statements on Enhancement of Safety, Security and Environmental 
Protection in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore, adopted on 8 September 200528 
and 20 September 2006,29 respectively, the progress made in establishing a 
cooperative mechanism on safety of navigation and environmental protection to 
promote dialogue and facilitate close cooperation between the littoral States, user 
States, shipping industry and other stakeholders and in implementing the Marine 
Electronic Highway Demonstration Project in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore 
and the entry into force of the Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating 
Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia on 4 September 2006, by which the 
Information Sharing Centre was launched and established in Singapore in November 
2006, and calls upon States to give immediate attention to adopting, concluding and 
implementing cooperation agreements at the regional level; 

 69. Calls upon States that have not yet done so to become parties to the 
Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing 
the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime30 and the 
Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational 
Organized Crime,31 and to take appropriate measures to ensure their effective 
implementation; 

 70. Also calls upon States to ensure that masters on ships flying their flag 
take the steps required by relevant instruments32 to provide assistance to persons in 
distress at sea, and urges States to cooperate and to take all necessary measures to 
ensure the effective implementation of the amendments to the International 
Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue33 and to the International Convention 

__________________ 

 28  A/60/529, annex II. 
 29  A/61/__  (see IMO/KUL 1/4). 
 30  Resolution 55/25, annex III. 
 31  Ibid., annex II. 
 32  The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, the International Convention 

on Maritime Search and Rescue, 1979, as amended, the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea, 1982, and the International Convention on Salvage, 1989. 

 33  International Maritime Organization, document MSC/78/26/Add.1, annex 5, resolution 
MSC.155(78). 



 A/61/L.30

 

13 06-62850 
 

for the Safety of Life at Sea34 relating to the delivery of persons rescued at sea to a 
place of safety, as well as of the associated Guidelines on the Treatment of Persons 
Rescued at Sea;35 

 71. Urges flag States without an effective maritime administration and 
appropriate legal frameworks to establish or enhance the necessary infrastructure, 
legislative and enforcement capabilities to ensure effective compliance with, and 
implementation and enforcement of, their responsibilities under international law 
and, until such action is taken, to consider declining the granting of the right to fly 
their flag to new vessels, suspending their registry or not opening a registry, and 
calls upon flag and port States to take all measures consistent with international law 
necessary to prevent the operation of substandard vessels; 

 72. Welcomes the adoption by the International Maritime Organization of the 
resolutions on the establishment of the Voluntary International Maritime 
Organization Member State Audit Scheme,36 the Code for the implementation of 
mandatory International Maritime Organization instruments37 and the future 
development of the Voluntary Scheme,38 and encourages all flag States to volunteer 
to be audited; 

 73. Takes note of the report39 of the Ad Hoc Consultative Meeting of senior 
representatives of international organizations on the “genuine link” held by the 
International Maritime Organization in July 2005 in response to the invitation 
extended to the International Maritime Organization and other relevant competent 
international organizations in General Assembly resolutions 58/240 and 58/14, to 
examine and clarify the role of the “genuine link” in relation to the duty of flag 
States to exercise effective control over ships flying their flag, including fishing 
vessels, and the potential consequences of non-compliance with duties and 
obligations of flag States described in relevant international instruments; 
 

  IX. Marine environment and marine resources 
 

 74. Emphasizes once again the importance of the implementation of Part XII 
of the Convention in order to protect and preserve the marine environment and its 
living marine resources against pollution and physical degradation, and calls upon 
all States to cooperate and take measures consistent with the Convention, directly or 
through competent international organizations, for the protection and preservation of 
the marine environment; 

 75. Encourages States to ratify or accede to international agreements 
addressing the protection and preservation of the marine environment and its living 
marine resources against the introduction of harmful aquatic organisms and 
pathogens and marine pollution from all sources, and other forms of physical 
degradation, as well as agreements that provide for compensation for damage 
resulting from marine pollution, and to adopt the necessary measures consistent with 
the Convention aimed at implementing and enforcing the rules contained in those 
agreements; 

__________________ 

 34  Ibid., annex 3, resolution MSC.153(78). 
 35  Ibid., annex 34, resolution MSC.167(78). 
 36  Resolution A.974(24). 
 37  Resolution A.973(24). 
 38  Resolution A.975(24). 
 39  A/61/160. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 14 
 

 76. Welcomes the entry into force on 24 March 2006 of the 1996 Protocol to 
the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and 
Other Matter, 1972,40 and on 14 June 2007 of the Protocol on Preparedness, 
Response and Cooperation to Pollution Incidents by Hazardous and Noxious 
Substances, 200041 and encourages States that have not done so to become parties to 
those Protocols; 

 77. Encourages States, in accordance with the Convention and other relevant 
instruments, either bilaterally or regionally, to jointly develop and promote 
contingency plans for responding to pollution incidents, as well as other incidents 
that are likely to have significant adverse effects on the marine environment and 
biodiversity; 

 78. Welcomes the activities of the United Nations Environment Programme 
relating to marine debris carried out in cooperation with relevant United Nations 
bodies and organizations, and encourages States to further develop partnerships with 
industry and civil society to raise awareness of the extent of the impact of marine 
debris on the health and productivity of the marine environment and consequent 
economic loss;  

 79. Urges States to integrate the issue of marine debris into national 
strategies dealing with waste management in the coastal zone, ports and maritime 
industries, including recycling, reuse, reduction and disposal, and to encourage the 
development of appropriate economic incentives to address this issue, including the 
development of cost recovery systems that provide an incentive to use port reception 
facilities and discourage ships from discharging marine debris at sea, and 
encourages States to cooperate regionally and subregionally to develop and 
implement joint prevention and recovery programmes for marine debris;  

 80. Welcomes the decision of the International Maritime Organization to 
review annex V to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from 
Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto,42 to assess its 
effectiveness in addressing sea-based sources of marine debris, and encourages all 
relevant organizations and bodies to assist in that process;  

 81. Encourages States that have not done so to become parties to the 
Protocol of 1997 (Annex VI-Regulations for the Prevention of Air Pollution from 
Ships) to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 
1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto, and furthermore to ratify 
or accede to the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Fouling 
Systems on Ships, 200143 as well as the International Convention for the Control 
and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments, 2004,44 thereby facilitating 
their early entry into force; 

 82. Notes the ongoing work of the International Maritime Organization in 
accordance with its resolution on International Maritime Organization Policies and 
Practices related to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Ships45 and 

__________________ 

 40  IMO/LC.2/Circ.380. 
 41  HNS-OPRC/CONF/11/Rev.1, attachment 1. 
 42  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1340, No. 22484. 
 43  International Maritime Organization, document AFS/CONF/26, annex. 
 44  International Maritime Organization, document BWM/CONF/36, annex. 
 45  Resolution A.963(23) of 5 December 2003. 



 A/61/L.30

 

15 06-62850 
 

the Work Plan to Identify and Develop the Mechanisms Needed to Achieve the 
Limitation or Reduction of CO2 Emission from International Shipping agreed by the 
Marine Environment Protection Committee of the International Maritime 
Organization at its fifty-fifth session, in October 2006, and welcomes ongoing 
efforts of that Organization in that regard; 

 83. Notes with appreciation the efforts of the International Maritime 
Organization in developing and approving an action plan to address the inadequacy 
of port waste reception facilities, and urges States to cooperate in correcting the 
shortfall in such facilities in accordance with the action plan; 

 84. Welcomes the outcomes of the Second Intergovernmental Review 
Meeting of the Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine 
Environment from Land-based Activities, convened in Beijing from 16 to 
20 October 2006, and calls upon States to take all appropriate measures to fulfil the 
commitments of the international community embodied in the Beijing Declaration 
on furthering the implementation of the Global Programme of Action;46 

 85. Also welcomes the continued work of States, the United Nations 
Environment Programme and regional organizations in the implementation of the 
Global Programme of Action, and encourages increased emphasis on the link 
between freshwater, the coastal zone and marine resources in the implementation of 
international development goals, including those contained in the United Nations 
Millennium Declaration8 and of the time-bound targets in the Plan of 
Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (“Johannesburg 
Plan of Implementation”),47 in particular the target on sanitation, and the Monterrey 
Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development;48 

 86. Invites States, in particular those States with advanced technology and 
marine capabilities, to explore prospects for improving cooperation with, and 
assistance to, developing States, in particular least developed countries and small 
island developing States, as well as coastal African States, with a view to better 
integrating into national policies and programmes, sustainable and effective 
development in the marine sector; 

 87. Encourages the competent international organizations, the United 
Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and other funding agencies to 
consider expanding their programmes within their respective fields of competence 
for assistance to developing countries and coordinate their efforts, including, inter 
alia, in the allocation and application of Global Environment Facility funding; 

 88. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a study, in cooperation with 
and based on information provided by States and competent international 
organizations and global and regional funding agencies, on the assistance available 
to and measures that may be taken by developing States, in particular the least 
developed States and small island developing States, as well as coastal African 

__________________ 

 46  Available at http://www.cep.unep.org. 
 47  Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 

26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and 
corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex. 

 48  Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico,  
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, 
annex. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 16 
 

States, to realize the benefits of sustainable and effective development of marine 
resources and uses of the oceans within the limits of national jurisdiction, and 
further requests the Secretary-General to present the study to the Assembly at its 
sixty-third session and to report to the Assembly at its sixty-second session on the 
progress in the preparation of the study; 
 

  X. Marine biodiversity 
 

 89. Reaffirms its role relating to the conservation and sustainable use of 
marine biological diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction, notes the work of 
States and relevant complementary intergovernmental organizations and bodies on 
those issues, including the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and invites them to contribute to its 
consideration of these issues within the areas of their respective competence; 

 90. Welcomes the meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working 
Group, established by paragraph 73 of resolution 59/24 to study issues relating to 
the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity beyond areas of 
national jurisdiction, held in New York from 13 to 17 February 2006, and takes note 
of the possible options, approaches and timely follow-up process discussed by the 
Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group;4 

 91. Takes note of the report of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working 
Group to study issues relating to the conservation and sustainable use of marine 
biological diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction,4 and requests the 
Secretary-General to convene, in accordance with paragraph 73 of resolution 59/24, 
and with full conference services, a meeting of the Working Group in 2008, to 
consider: 

 (a) The environmental impacts of anthropogenic activities on marine 
biological diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction; 

 (b) Coordination and cooperation among States as well as relevant 
intergovernmental organizations and bodies for the conservation and management of 
marine biological diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction; 

 (c) The role of area-based management tools; 

 (d) Genetic resources beyond areas of national jurisdiction;  

 (e) Whether there is a governance or regulatory gap, and if so, how it should 
be addressed; 

 92. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the issues referred to in 
paragraph 91 above in the context of his report on oceans and the law of the sea to 
the General Assembly at its sixty-second session, in order to assist the Working 
Group in preparing its agenda, in consultation with all relevant international bodies, 
and to arrange for support for the performance of its work to be provided by the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea; 

 93. Encourages States to include relevant experts in their delegations 
attending the meeting of the Working Group; 

 94. Recognizes the importance of making the outcomes of the Working 
Group widely available; 



 A/61/L.30

 

17 06-62850 
 

 95. Notes the work under the Jakarta Mandate on Marine and Coastal 
Biological Diversity49 and the Convention on Biological Diversity elaborated 
programme of work on marine and coastal biological diversity,50 as well as the 
relevant decisions adopted at the eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to 
the Convention on Biological Diversity, held in Curitiba, Brazil, from 20 to 
31 March 2006; 

 96. Reaffirms the need for States and competent international organizations 
to urgently consider ways to integrate and improve, based on the best available 
scientific information and in accordance with the Convention and related 
agreements and instruments, the management of risks to the marine biodiversity of 
seamounts, cold water corals, hydrothermal vents and certain other underwater 
features; 

 97. Also reaffirms the need for States to continue their efforts to develop and 
facilitate the use of diverse approaches and tools for conserving and managing 
vulnerable marine ecosystems, including the possible establishment of marine 
protected areas, consistent with international law and based on the best scientific 
information available, and the development of representative networks of any such 
marine protected areas by 2012; 

 98. Notes the work of States, relevant intergovernmental organizations and 
bodies, including the Convention on Biological Diversity, in the assessment of 
scientific information on, and compilation of ecological criteria for the 
identification of, marine areas that require protection, in light of the objective of the 
World Summit on Sustainable Development to develop and facilitate the use of 
diverse approaches and tools such as the establishment of marine protected areas 
consistent with international law and based on scientific information, including 
representative networks by 2012; 

 99. Also notes the report of the Scientific Experts’ Workshop on Criteria for 
Identifying Ecologically or Biologically Significant Areas beyond National 
Jurisdiction, held in Ottawa from 6 to 8 December 2005,51 and encourages experts 
to participate in follow-up workshops; 

 100. Further notes the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment Synthesis reports 
and the urgent need to protect the marine biodiversity expressed therein; 

 101. Calls upon States and international organizations to urgently take action 
to address, in accordance with international law, destructive practices that have 
adverse impacts on marine biodiversity and ecosystems, including seamounts, 
hydrothermal vents and cold water corals; 

 102. Reiterates its support for the International Coral Reef Initiative, takes 
note of the International Coral Reef Initiative General Meetings, held in Koror from 
31 October to 2 November 2005, and in Cozumel, Mexico, on 22 and 23 October 
2006, supports the work under the Jakarta Mandate on Marine and Coastal 
Biological Diversity and the elaborated programme of work on marine and coastal 
biological diversity related to coral reefs, and notes the progress that the 
International Coral Reef Initiative and other relevant bodies have made to 

__________________ 

 49  See A/51/312, annex II, decision II/10. 
 50  UNEP/CBD/COP/7/21, annex, decision VII/5, annex I. 
 51  A/AC.259/16. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 18 
 

incorporate cold water coral ecosystems into their programmes and activities and to 
promote the conservation and sustainable use of all coral reef resources; 

 103. Expresses its concern that coral bleaching has become more frequent and 
severe throughout tropical seas over the last two decades, and highlights the need 
for improved monitoring to predict and identify bleaching events to support and 
strengthen action during such events and improve strategies to support the natural 
resilience of reefs; 

 104. Welcomes the publication of The Status of Coral Reefs in Tsunami 
Affected Countries: 2005 published by the Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network; 

 105. Encourages States to cooperate, directly or through competent 
international bodies, in exchanging information in the event of accidents involving 
vessels on coral reefs and in promoting the development of economic assessment 
techniques for both restoration and non-use values of coral reef systems; 

 106. Emphasizes the need to mainstream sustainable coral reef management 
and integrated watershed management into national development strategies, as well 
as into the activities of relevant United Nations agencies and programmes, 
international financial institutions and the donor community; 

 107. Encourages further studies and consideration of the impacts of ocean 
noise on marine living resources, and requests the Division to compile the peer-
reviewed scientific studies it receives from Member States and make them available 
on its website; 
 

  XI. Marine science 
 

 108. Calls upon States, individually or in collaboration with each other or 
with relevant international organizations and bodies, to improve understanding and 
knowledge of the oceans and the deep sea, including, in particular, the extent and 
vulnerability of deep sea biodiversity and ecosystems, by increasing their marine 
scientific research activities in accordance with the Convention; 

 109. Notes the contribution of the Census of Marine Life to marine 
biodiversity research, and encourages participation in the initiative; 

 110. Takes note with appreciation of the work of the Advisory Body of 
Experts on the Law of the Sea of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission 
on the development of procedures for the implementation of Parts XIII and XIV of 
the Convention and on the development of a consensual text on the legal framework 
for the collection of oceanographic data within the context of the Convention; 

 111. Stresses the importance of increasing the scientific understanding of the 
oceans/atmosphere interface, including through participation in ocean observing 
programmes and geographic information systems, such as the Global Ocean 
Observation System, a programme of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic 
Commission, particularly considering their role in monitoring climate variability 
and in the establishment of tsunami warning systems; 

 112. Recognizes the significant progress made by the Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic Commission and Member States towards the establishment of 
regional tsunami warning and mitigation systems, welcomes the continued 
collaboration of the World Meteorological Organization and other United Nations 



 A/61/L.30

 

19 06-62850 
 

and intergovernmental organizations in this effort, and encourages Member States to 
establish and sustain their national warning and mitigation systems, within a global, 
ocean-related multi-hazard approach, as necessary, to reduce loss of life and damage 
to national economies and strengthen the resilience of coastal communities to 
natural disasters; 
 

  XII. Regular process for global reporting and assessment of the state of the 
marine environment, including socio-economic aspects 

 

 113. Recalls that the Ad Hoc Steering Group was established by resolution 
60/30; 

 114. Takes note of the report of the first meeting of the Ad Hoc Steering 
Group for the “assessment of assessments” launched as a preparatory stage towards 
the establishment of the regular process for global reporting and assessment of the 
state of the marine environment, including socio-economic aspects, held in New 
York from 7 to 9 June 2006,52 and urges Member States from the African and Asian 
regional groups to propose the remaining representatives to the Chairmen of their 
regional groups so that the appointment to the Ad Hoc Steering Group of those 
representatives can be made by the President of the General Assembly without 
further delay; 

 115. Urges the Ad Hoc Steering Group to complete the “assessment of 
assessments” within two years, as provided for in resolution 60/30;  

 116. Welcomes with appreciation the support of the United Nations 
Environment Programme and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission for 
the “assessment of assessments” in providing secretariat services to the Ad Hoc 
Steering Group and establishing the group of experts, as approved by the Ad Hoc 
Steering Group; 

 117. Invites Member States, the Global Environment Facility and other 
interested parties to contribute financially to the “assessment of assessments”, 
taking into account the workplan and budget approved by the Ad Hoc Steering 
Group, in order to complete the “assessment of assessments” within the specified 
period; 
 

  XIII. Regional cooperation 
 

 118. Notes that there have been a number of initiatives at the regional level, in 
various regions, to further the implementation of the Convention, takes note in that 
context of the Caribbean-focused Assistance Fund, which is intended to facilitate, 
mainly through technical assistance, the voluntary undertaking of maritime 
delimitation negotiations between Caribbean States, takes note once again of the 
Fund for Peace: Peaceful Settlement of Territorial Disputes, established by the 
General Assembly of the Organization of American States in 2000 as a primary 
mechanism, given its broader regional scope, for the prevention and resolution of 
pending territorial, land border and maritime boundary disputes, and calls upon 
States and others in a position to do so to contribute to these funds;  
 

__________________ 

 52  A/61/GRAME/AHSG/1. 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 20 
 

  XIV. Open-ended informal consultative process on oceans and the law of the sea 
 

 119. Welcomes the report on the work of the Consultative Process at its 
seventh meeting and invites States to consider the agreed consensual elements 
relating to ecosystem approaches and oceans as suggested by the Consultative 
Process as set out in Part A of the report,5 in particular the proposed elements of an 
ecosystem approach, means to achieve implementation of an ecosystem approach 
and requirements for improved application of an ecosystem approach and also: 

 (a) Notes that continued environmental degradation in many parts of the 
world and increasing competing demands require an urgent response and the setting 
of priorities for management interventions aimed at conserving ecosystem integrity;  

 (b) Notes that ecosystem approaches to ocean management should be 
focused on managing human activities in order to maintain and, where needed, 
restore ecosystem health to sustain goods and environmental services, provide social 
and economic benefits for food security, sustain livelihoods in support of 
international development goals, including those contained in the United Nations 
Millennium Declaration, and conserve marine biodiversity;  

 (c) Recalls that States should be guided in the application of ecosystem 
approaches by a number of existing instruments, in particular the Convention, which 
sets out the legal framework for all activities in the oceans and seas, and its 
implementing Agreements, as well as other commitments, such as those contained in 
the Convention on Biological Diversity and the World Summit on Sustainable 
Development call for the application of an ecosystem approach by 2010; 

 (d) Encourages States to cooperate and coordinate their efforts and take, 
individually or jointly, as appropriate, all measures, in conformity with international 
law, including the Convention and other applicable instruments, to address impacts 
on marine ecosystems in areas within and beyond national jurisdiction, taking into 
account the integrity of the ecosystems concerned; 

 120. Requests the Secretary-General to convene the eighth meeting of the 
Consultative Process, in New York, from 25 to 29 June 2007, to provide it with the 
necessary facilities for the performance of its work and to arrange for support to be 
provided by the Division, in cooperation with other relevant parts of the Secretariat, 
as appropriate; 

 121. Recalls the need to strengthen and improve the efficiency of the 
Consultative Process, and encourages States, intergovernmental organizations and 
programmes to provide guidance to the co-chairpersons to this effect, particularly 
before and during the preparatory meeting for the Consultative Process; 

 122. Expresses its concern regarding the insufficient resources available in the 
voluntary trust fund established by resolution 55/7 for the purpose of assisting 
developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small island 
developing States and landlocked developing States, in attending the meetings of the 
Consultative Process, by covering the costs of travel and daily subsistence 
allowance, and urges States to make additional contributions to the trust fund;  

 123. Decides that, in its deliberations on the report of the Secretary-General 
on oceans and the law of the sea at its forthcoming meetings in 2007 and 2008, the 
Consultative Process will focus its discussions on the topics “Marine genetic 
resources” in 2007 and “Maritime security and safety” in 2008; 



 A/61/L.30

 

21 06-62850 
 

  XV. Coordination and cooperation 
 

 124. Encourages States to work closely with and through international 
organizations, funds and programmes, as well as the specialized agencies of the 
United Nations system and relevant international conventions, to identify emerging 
areas of focus for improved coordination and cooperation and how best to address 
these issues;  

 125. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the 
attention of heads of intergovernmental organizations, the specialized agencies, 
funds and programmes of the United Nations engaged in activities relating to ocean 
affairs and the law of the sea, as well as funding institutions, and underlines the 
importance of their constructive and timely input for the report of the Secretary-
General on oceans and the law of the sea and of their participation in relevant 
meetings and processes; 

 126. Welcomes the work done by the secretariats of relevant United Nations 
specialized agencies, programmes, funds and bodies and the secretariats of related 
organizations and conventions to enhance inter-agency coordination and cooperation 
on ocean issues, including through UN-Oceans, the inter-agency coordination 
mechanism on ocean and coastal issues within the United Nations system; 

 127. Encourages continued updates to Member States by UN-Oceans 
regarding its priorities and initiatives, in particular with respect to the proposed 
participation in UN-Oceans; 
 

  XVI. Activities of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea 
 

 128. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the annual 
comprehensive report on oceans and the law of the sea, prepared by the Division, as 
well as for the other activities of the Division, which reflect the high standard of 
assistance provided to Member States by the Division; 

 129. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to carry out the 
responsibilities and functions entrusted to him in the Convention and by the related 
resolutions of the General Assembly, including resolutions 49/28 and 52/26, and to 
ensure the allocation of appropriate resources to the Division for the performance of 
its activities under the approved budget for the Organization;  
 

  XVII. Sixty-second session of the General Assembly 
 

 130. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive report, in its 
current comprehensive format and in accordance with established practice, for the 
consideration of the General Assembly at its sixty-second session, on developments 
and issues relating to ocean affairs and the law of the sea, including the 
implementation of the present resolution, in accordance with resolutions 49/28, 
52/26 and 54/33, and to make the report available at least six weeks in advance of 
the meeting of the Consultative Process;  

 131. Emphasizes the critical role of the annual comprehensive report of the 
Secretary-General, which integrates information on developments relating to the 
implementation of the Convention and the work of the Organization, its specialized 
agencies and other institutions in the field of ocean affairs and the law of the sea at 
the global and regional levels, and as a result constitutes the basis for the annual 



A/61/L.30  
 

06-62850 22 
 

consideration and review of developments relating to ocean affairs and the law of 
the sea by the General Assembly as the global institution having the competence to 
undertake such a review; 

 132. Notes that the report referred to in paragraph 130 above will also be 
presented to States parties pursuant to article 319 of the Convention regarding issues 
of a general nature that have arisen with respect to the Convention; 

 133. Also notes the desire to further improve the efficiency of, and effective 
participation of delegations in, the informal consultations concerning the annual 
General Assembly resolution on oceans and the law of the sea and the resolution on 
sustainable fisheries, and decides to limit the period of the informal consultations on 
both resolutions to a maximum of four weeks in total and to ensure that the 
consultations are scheduled in such a way as to avoid overlap with the period during 
which the Sixth Committee is meeting and that the Division has sufficient time to 
produce the report referred to in paragraph 130 above; 

 134. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-second session 
the item entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea”. 

 


