






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/61/415

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
6 October 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-54882 (E)    201106  
*0654882* 

Sixty-first session 
Agenda item 39 

 
 
 

  Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 
 
 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee) 
 
 

Rapporteur: Ms. Rana Salayeva (Azerbaijan) 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 13 September 2006, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 
its sixty-first session the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples” and to allocate it to 
the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee). 

2. At its 1st meeting, on 28 September 2006, the Fourth Committee decided to 
hold a general debate covering agenda items 35 to 39. The general debate on those 
items was held at the 2nd to 4th and 6th meetings, from 2 to 4 and on 6 October; the 
Committee also considered item 39 at its 5th and 8th meetings, on 5 and 12 October 
(see A/C.4/61/SR.2 to 6 and 8). The Committee took action on item 39 at its 7th and 
9th meetings, on 11 and 13 October (see A/C.4/61/SR.7 and 9). 

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following 
documents: 

 (a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;1  

 (b) Report of the Secretary-General on the question of Western Sahara 
(A/61/121). 

__________________ 

 1  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 
chaps. III, VIII-X and XII. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 2 
 

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, in his capacity as the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, introduced the report of the 
Special Committee. At the same meeting, the representative of Saint Lucia, in his 
capacity as Chairman of the Special Committee, made a statement in which he gave 
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 2006 (see 
A/C.4/61/SR.2). 

5. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee granted requests for hearings to 
the following petitioners in connection with its consideration of the item: 

 J.J. Bossano, Leader of the Opposition, Gibraltar (A/C.4/61/2) 

 Julian Aguon, Chamoru Nation (A/C.4/61/3) 

 Hope A. Cristobal, Organization of People for Indigenous Rights 
(A/C.4/61/3/Add.1) 

 Victoria-Lola M. Leon Guerrero, Guahan Indigenous Collective 
(A/C.4/61/3/Add.2) 

 Sabina Flores Perez, International Peoples Coalition Against Military Pollution 
(A/C.4/61/3/Add.3) 

 Tiffany Rose Naputi Lacsado, National Asian Pacific American Women’s 
Forum (A/C.4/61/3/Add.4) 

 Fanai Castro, Chamoru Cultural Development and Research Institute 
(A/C.4/61/3/Add.5) 

 Charles Wilson, U.S.-Western Sahara Foundation (A/C.4/61/4) 

 Nancy Huff, Teach the Children International (A/C.4/61/4/Add.1) 

 Helen Hardin, on behalf of United States Congressman Zach Wamp 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.2) 

 Erik Hagen, Norwegian Support Committee for Western Sahara 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.3) 

 Janet Lenz, Christ the Rock Community Church (A/C.4/61/4/Add.4) 

 Vanessa Ramos, American Association of Jurists (A/C.4/61/4/Add.5) 

 Jan Strömdahl, Swedish Western Sahara Committee (A/C.4/61/4/Add.6) 

 Aymeric Chauprade, Sorbonne (A/C.4/61/4/Add.7) 

 Mohamed El Mojahdi, Sahraouie Human Rights Association 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.8) 

 Mustapha Bouth, former member of the political office of the Frente Polisario 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.9) 

 Gajmoula Ebi, Royal Advisory Council for Sahrawi Affairs, and COREFASA 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.10) 

 Baba Ahl Mayara, Unity and Reconciliation Association  (A/C.4/61/4/Add.11) 

 Tanya Warburg, Freedom For All (A/C.4/61/4/Add.12) 



 A/61/415

 

3 06-54882 
 

 Francisco José Alonso Rodríguez, Human Rights League (A/C.4/61/4/Add.13) 

 Andrés Perelló Rodríguez, Intergrupo Parlamentario “Paz y Libertad para el 
Pueblo Saharaui” de las Comunidades Autónomas (A/C.4/61/4/Add.14) 

 Txomin Aurrekoetxea, Federación Estatal de Instituciones Solidarias con el 
Pueblo Saharaui (FEDISSAH) a nivel del Estado Español (A/C.4/61/4/Add.15) 

 María Inés Miranda Navarro, Observer Mission in Western Sahara of the 
Consejo General de la Abogacia Española (A/C.4/61/4/Add.16) 

 Sydney S. Assor, Surrey Three Faiths Forum (A/C.4/61/4/Add.17) 

 Jane Bahaijoub, Family Protection (A/C.4/61/4/Add.18) 

 Anja Elisabeth Oksalampi, YAAKAARE–REDHRIC (A/C.4/61/4/Add.19) 

 Brahim Ballali, Association of Sahraoui Parents and Victims of Repression 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.20) 

 Nicola Quatrano (A/C.4/61/4/Add.21) 

 Lord Newall, DL, International Committee for the Tindouf Prisoners 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.22) 

 Denis Ducarme, Member of Parliament, Belgium (A/C.4/61/4/Add.23) 

 Anna Maria Stame Cervone, Christian Democrat and People’s Parties 
International (A/C.4/61/4/Add.24) 

 Sandra Cioffi, Popolari Udeur Group in the Commission of Foreign Affairs of 
the Italian Parliament (A/C.4/61/4/Add.25) 

 Pierre Legros (A/C.4/61/4/Add.26) 

 Claude Moniquet, European Strategic Intelligence and Security Center 
(A/C.4/61/4/Add.27) 

 Ahmed Boukhari, Frente Polisario (A/C.4/61/4/Add.28) 

 Samuele Piccolo, Community of Rome (A/C.4/61/4/Add.29) 

 Inés Jávega Soley (A/C.4/61/4/Add.30) 

 Fabián Martín Martín, Independence Party of Lanzarote (A/C.4/61/4/Add.31) 

 Isaac Castellano Sanginés (A/C.4/61/4/Add.32) 

 Jacinta De Roeck, Belgian Parliamentary Intergroup “Peace for the Sahrawi 
People” (A/C.4/61/4/Add.33) 

 Latifa Aït-Baala, Action internationale femmes (A/C.4/61/4/Add.34) 

 Prudencio Javier Morillas Gómez (A/C.4/61/4/Add.35) 

 Roch Wamytan, Comité Rheebu Nuu (A/C.4/61/5) 

6. At the 4th meeting, on 4 October, with the Committee’s consent and in 
accordance with established practice, the Chief Minister of Gibraltar, Peter Caruana, 
made a statement (see A/C.4/61/SR.4). 

7. At the same meeting, the Leader of the Opposition in Gibraltar, J. J. Bossano, 
made a statement (see A/C.4/61/SR.4). 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 4 
 

8. Also at the same meeting, the Committee heard the following petitioners: 
Julian Aguon, Chamoru Nation; Kerri Ann Naputi Borja, on behalf of Hope A. 
Cristobal, Organization of People for Indigenous Rights; Victoria-Lola M. Leon 
Guerrero, Guahan Indigenous Collective; Sabina Flores Perez, International Peoples 
Coalition Against Military Pollution; Tiffany Rose Naputi Lacsado, National Asian 
Pacific American Women’s Forum; Fanai Castro, Chamoru Cultural Development 
and Research Institute; Charles Wilson, U.S.-Western Sahara Foundation; Aymeric 
Chauprade; Nancy Huff, Teach the Children International; and Erik Hagen, 
Norwegian Support Committee for Western Sahara (see A/C.4/61/SR.4). 

9. At its 5th meeting, on 5 October, the Committee heard the following 
petitioners: Janet Lenz, Christ the Rock Community Church; Prudencio Javier 
Morillas Gómez; Jan Strömdahl, Swedish Western Sahara Committee; Lord Newall, 
DL, International Committee for the Tindouf Prisoners; Latifa Aït-Baala, Action 
internationale femmes; Isaac Castellano Sangines; Sandra Cioffi, Popolari Udeur 
Group in the Commission of Foreign Affairs of the Italian Parliament; Tanya 
Warburg, Freedom For All; Francisco José Alonso Rodríguez, Human Rights 
League; Txomin Aurrekoetxea, Federación Estatal de Instituciones Solidarias con el 
Pueblo Saharaui (FEDISSAH) a nivel del Estado Español; María Inés Miranda 
Navarro, Observer Mission in Western Sahara of the Consejo General de la 
Abrogacia Española; Sydney S. Assor, Surrey Three Faiths Forum; Jane Bahaijoub, 
Family Protection; Samuele Piccolo, Community of Rome; Nicola Quatrano; 
Mohamed El Mojahdi, Sahraouie Human Rights Association; Denis Ducarme, 
Member of Parliament, Belgium; Anna Maria Stame Cervone, Christian Democrat 
and People’s Parties International; Claude Moniquet, European Strategic 
Intelligence and Security Center; Jacinta De Roeck, Belgian Parliamentary 
Intergroup “Peace for the Sahrawi People”; and Rafael Mapou, Comité Rheebu Nuu 
(see A/C.4/61/SR.5). 

10. At its 6th meeting, on 6 October, the Committee heard the following 
petitioners: Baba Ahl Mayara, Unity and Reconciliation Association; Brahim 
Ballali, Association of the Sahraoui Parents and Victims of Repression; Inés Jávega 
Soley, ASADEDH; Fabián Martín Martín, Independence Party of Lanzarote; 
Gajmoula Ebbi, the Royal Advisory Council for Sahrawi Affairs and COREFASA; 
Mustapha Bouth, former member of the political office of Frente Polisario; and 
Ahmed Boukhari, Frente Polisario (see A/C.4/60/SR.6). 

11.  At the same meeting, the representative of the United States made a statement 
(see A/C.4/60/SR.6). 

12.  Also at the same meeting, with the consent of the Committee and in 
accordance with the established practice, a representative of the Governor of the 
United States Virgin Islands made a statement (see A/C.4/61/SR.6). 
 
 

 II. Consideration of proposals 
 
 

 A. Question of Western Sahara 
 
 

13. At its 7th and 8th meetings, on 11 and 12 October, the Committee decided to 
defer action for 24 hours on a draft resolution entitled “Question of Western Sahara” 
(A/C.4/61/L.5). 



 A/61/415

 

5 06-54882 
 

14. At the 9th meeting, on 13 October, the representative of Algeria, on behalf of 
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Botswana, Cuba, Dominica, Fiji, Grenada, 
Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, Saint 
Lucia, South Africa, Timor-Leste, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced the draft 
resolution. Subsequently, Belize, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Nauru, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines and Uruguay joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

15. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/61/L.5 by a 
recorded vote of 76 to none, with 72 abstentions (see para. 29, draft resolution I). 
The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 
 Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Bahamas, 

Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, 
Chile, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
Denmark, Dominica, Ecuador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, 
Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Liechtenstein, Malawi, Mauritius, Mexico, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Romania, 
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Suriname, Sweden, 
Switzerland, Timor-Leste, Uganda, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela 
(Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 None. 

Abstaining: 
 Andorra, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Brazil, Brunei 

Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Colombia, Comoros, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Equatorial 
Guinea, France, Gabon,  Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, India, 
Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua, Oman, 
Palau, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Korea, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, Togo, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United States of America, 
Yemen. 

16. At the same meeting, statements in explanation of position were made by the 
representatives of Morocco, Peru, Chile, Senegal, Finland (on behalf of the 
European Union), Guinea, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, Brazil, the Philippines, Guatemala, Myanmar, the Russian Federation, 
Japan, Portugal, Sweden, Italy, the Czech Republic, Greece, Malaysia, Belgium, 
Ireland, Egypt, Ukraine, Croatia, Slovakia, Thailand, New Zealand, Denmark, 
Cameroon, Canada, Norway (also on behalf of Iceland), Poland, Indonesia, Spain, 
Slovenia, the Netherlands, Paraguay and Hungary (see A/C.4/61/SR.9). 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 6 
 

17. At the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria and Morocco made 
statements (see A/C.4/61/SR.9). 
 
 

 B. Question of New Caledonia 
 
 

18. At its 7th meeting, on 11 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution IV, 
entitled “Question of New Caledonia”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the 
Special Committee2 without a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution III) 
(see A/C.4/61/SR.7). 
 
 

 C. Question of Tokelau 
 
 

19. At its 7th meeting, on 11 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution V, 
entitled “Question of Tokelau”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the Special 
Committee2 without a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution III) (see A/C.4/61/SR.7). 
 
 

 D. Questions of American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the 
British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guam, 
Montserrat, Pitcairn, Saint Helena, the Turks and  
Caicos Islands and the United States Virgin Islands 
 
 

20. At its 7th meeting, on 11 October, the representative of Saint Lucia orally 
revised consolidated draft resolution VI, entitled “Questions of American Samoa, 
Anguilla, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guam, 
Montserrat, Pitcairn, Saint Helena, the Turks and Caicos Islands and the United 
States Virgin Islands”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the Special 
Committee,2 as follows: 

 (a) In section B.XI, sixth preambular paragraph, after the word “archives” 
the words “and the agreement between the Danish Human Rights Institute and the 
African Caribbean Reparations and Resettlement Alliance, a non-governmental 
organization based in the Territory, to examine the question of reparations between 
the people of Denmark and the people of the United States Virgin Islands with 
respect to the institution of slavery” were deleted; 

 (b) A new operative paragraph 6 was added, reading:  

  “6. Welcomes the cooperation agreements existing between the 
Territory and Denmark, the formal colonial Power of the Territory, on the 
exchange of artefacts and the repatriation of archival material”. 

21. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution, as orally 
revised, without a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution IV). 

22. At the same meeting, statements in explanation of position were made by the 
representatives of Argentina and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland (see A/C.4/61/SR.7). 

 

__________________ 

 2  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23). 



 A/61/415

 

7 06-54882 
 

 E. Dissemination of information on decolonization 
 
 

23. At its 7th meeting, on 11 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution VII, 
entitled “Dissemination of information on decolonization”, contained in chapter XII, 
of the report of the Special Committee,2 by a recorded vote of 153 to 2, with 
1 abstention (see para. 29, draft resolution V). The voting was as follows:3 

In favour: 
 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 

Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, 
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, 
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, 
Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, 
Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lesotho, Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, 
Maldives, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, 
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 

Abstaining: 
 France. 

24. At the same meeting, statements in explanation of position were made by the 
representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and 
Mali (see A/C.4/61/SR.7). 
 
 

 F. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 
 
 

25. At its 7th meeting, on 11 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution VIII 
entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the 

__________________ 

 3  Subsequently, the delegation of Lebanon indicated that it had intended to vote in favour. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 8 
 

Special Committee2 by a recorded vote of 154 to 3, with 3 abstentions (see para. 29, 
draft resolution VI). The voting was as follows:4 

In favour: 
 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 

Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, 
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, 
Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lesotho, Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, 
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, 
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Israel, Kiribati, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 

Abstaining: 
 Belgium, France, United States of America. 

26. At the same meeting, a statement in explanation of position was made by the 
representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (see 
A/C.4/61/SR.7). 
 
 

 G. Question of Gibraltar 
 
 

27. At its 7th meeting, on 11 October, the Committee had before it a draft decision 
entitled “Question of Gibraltar” (A/C.4/61/L.6), submitted by the Chairman. 

28. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft decision A/C.4/61/L.6 
without a vote (see para. 30). 

 

__________________ 

 4  Subsequently, the delegation of Lebanon indicated that it had intended to vote in favour; and the 
delegation of Kiribati indicated that it had not been present at the meeting. 



 A/61/415

 

9 06-54882 
 

 III. Recommendations of the Special Political and 
Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
 
 

29. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft 
resolutions: 
 
 

 

  Draft resolution I 
Question of Western Sahara 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered in depth the question of Western Sahara, 

 Reaffirming the inalienable right of all peoples to self-determination and 
independence, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Charter of the 
United Nations and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 
containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and Peoples, 

 Recalling its resolution 60/114 of 8 December 2005, 

 Recalling also all resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council on the question of Western Sahara, 

 Recalling further Security Council resolutions 658 (1990) of 27 June 1990 and 
690 (1991) of 29 April 1991, by which the Council approved the settlement plan for 
Western Sahara,1 

 Recalling Security Council resolutions 1359 (2001) of 29 June 2001 and 1429 
(2002) of 30 July 2002, as well as 1495 (2003) of 31 July 2003, in which the 
Council expressed its support of the peace plan for self-determination of the people 
of Western Sahara2 as an optimum political solution on the basis of agreement 
between the two parties, and resolutions 1541 (2004) of 29 April 2004, 1570 (2004) 
of 28 October 2004, 1598 (2005) of 28 April 2005, 1634 (2005) of 28 October 2005 
and 1675 (2006) of 28 April 2006, 

 Taking note of the responses of the parties and neighbouring States to the 
Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General concerning the peace plan contained in the 
report of the Secretary-General of 23 May 2003,3  

 Reaffirming the responsibility of the United Nations towards the people of 
Western Sahara, 

 Noting with satisfaction the entry into force of the ceasefire in accordance with 
the proposal made by the Secretary-General, and stressing the importance it attaches 
to the maintenance of the ceasefire as an integral part of the settlement plan, 

 Underlining, in this regard, the validity of the settlement plan, while noting the 
fundamental differences between the parties in its implementation, 

__________________ 

 1  See S/21360 and S/22464 and Corr.1. 
 2  S/2003/565 and Corr.1, annex II. 
 3  S/2003/565 and Corr.1. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 10 
 

 Stressing that the lack of progress in the settlement of the dispute on Western 
Sahara continues to cause suffering to the people of Western Sahara, remains a 
source of potential instability in the region and obstructs the economic development 
of the Maghreb region and that, in view of this, the search for a political solution is 
critically needed, 

 Welcoming the efforts of the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy in 
search of a mutually acceptable political solution, which will provide for self-
determination of the people of Western Sahara, 

 Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,4  

 Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General,5  

 1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;5  

 2. Underlines Security Council resolution 1495 (2003), in which the 
Council expressed its support of the peace plan for self-determination of the people 
of Western Sahara as an optimum political solution on the basis of agreement 
between the two parties; 

 3. Underlines also that the parties reacted differently to this plan; 

 4. Continues to support strongly the efforts of the Secretary-General and his 
Personal Envoy to achieve a mutually acceptable political solution to the dispute 
over Western Sahara; 

 5. Commends the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy for their 
outstanding efforts and the two parties for the spirit of cooperation they have shown 
in the support they provide for those efforts; 

 6. Calls upon all the parties and the States of the region to cooperate fully 
with the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy; 

 7. Reaffirms the responsibility of the United Nations towards the people of 
Western Sahara; 

 8. Calls upon the parties to cooperate with the International Committee of 
the Red Cross in its efforts to solve the problem of the fate of the people 
unaccounted for, and calls upon the parties to abide by their obligations under 
international humanitarian law to release without further delay all those held since 
the start of the conflict; 

 9. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to continue to consider the situation in Western Sahara and to 
report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session; 

 10. Invites the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-second session a report on the implementation of the present resolution. 

__________________ 

 4  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first  Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 
chap. VIII. 

 5  A/61/121. 



 A/61/415

 

11 06-54882 
 

  Draft resolution II 
  Question of New Caledonia 

 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the question of New Caledonia, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to New Caledonia,1 

 Reaffirming the right of peoples to self-determination as enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations, 

 Recalling General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 
1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, 

 Noting the importance of the positive measures being pursued in New 
Caledonia by the French authorities, in cooperation with all sectors of the 
population, to promote political, economic and social development in the Territory, 
including measures in the area of environmental protection and action with respect 
to drug abuse and trafficking, in order to provide a framework for its peaceful 
progress to self-determination, 

 Noting also, in this context, the importance of equitable economic and social 
development, as well as continued dialogue among the parties involved in New 
Caledonia in the preparation of the act of self-determination of New Caledonia, 

 Noting with satisfaction the intensification of contacts between New Caledonia 
and neighbouring countries of the South Pacific region, 

 1. Welcomes the significant developments that have taken place in New 
Caledonia since the signing of the Nouméa Accord of 5 May 1998 by the 
representatives of New Caledonia and the Government of France;2 

 2. Urges all the parties involved, in the interest of all the people of New 
Caledonia, to maintain, in the framework of the Nouméa Accord, their dialogue in a 
spirit of harmony; 

 3. Notes the relevant provisions of the Nouméa Accord aimed at taking 
more broadly into account the Kanak identity in the political and social organization 
of New Caledonia, and also those provisions of the Accord relating to control of 
immigration and protection of local employment; 

 4. Takes note of the concerns expressed by a group of indigenous people in 
New Caledonia regarding their underrepresentation in the Territory’s governmental 
and social structures; 

 5. Notes the relevant provisions of the Nouméa Accord to the effect that 
New Caledonia may become a member or associate member of certain international 
organizations, such as international organizations in the Pacific region, the 
United Nations, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization and the International Labour Organization, according to their 
regulations; 

__________________ 

 1  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 
chap. VIII. 

 2  A/AC.109/2114, annex. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 12 
 

 6. Also notes the agreement between the signatories of the Nouméa Accord 
that the progress made in the emancipation process shall be brought to the attention 
of the United Nations; 

 7. Welcomes the fact that the administering Power invited to New 
Caledonia, at the time the new institutions were established, a mission of 
information which comprised representatives of countries of the Pacific region; 

 8. Calls upon the administering Power to continue to transmit to the 
Secretary-General information as required under Article 73 e of the Charter of the 
United Nations; 

 9. Invites all the parties involved to continue promoting a framework for the 
peaceful progress of the Territory towards an act of self-determination in which all 
options are open and which would safeguard the rights of all sectors of the 
population, according to the letter and the spirit of the Nouméa Accord, which is 
based on the principle that it is for the populations of New Caledonia to choose how 
to control their destiny; 

 10. Welcomes the intention expressed by the French authorities to resolve in 
the coming years the question of voter registration; 

 11. Also welcomes the measures that have been taken to strengthen and 
diversify the New Caledonian economy in all fields, and encourages further such 
measures in accordance with the spirit of the Matignon and Nouméa Accords; 

 12. Further welcomes the importance attached by the parties to the Matignon 
and Nouméa Accords to greater progress in housing, employment, training, 
education and health care in New Caledonia; 

 13. Notes the increase by the Government of France in financial assistance to 
the Territory, amounting to 910 million euros in 2005 for health, education, payment 
of public-service salaries and funding development schemes; 

 14. Acknowledges the contribution of the Melanesian Cultural Centre to the 
protection of the indigenous Kanak culture of New Caledonia; 

 15. Notes the positive initiatives aimed at protecting the natural environment 
of New Caledonia, notably the “Zonéco” operation designed to map and evaluate 
marine resources within the economic zone of New Caledonia; 

 16. Welcomes the establishment of a new form of cooperation among 
Australia, France and New Zealand in terms of surveillance of fishing zones, in 
accordance with the wishes expressed by France during the France-Oceania Summit 
in July 2003; 

 17. Acknowledges the close links between New Caledonia and the peoples of 
the South Pacific and the positive actions being taken by the French and territorial 
authorities to facilitate the further development of those links, including the 
development of closer relations with the countries members of the Pacific Islands 
Forum; 

 18. Welcomes, in this regard, the accession by New Caledonia to the status of 
observer in the Pacific Islands Forum, continuing high-level visits to New Caledonia 
by delegations from countries of the Pacific region and high-level visits by 
delegations from New Caledonia to countries members of the Pacific Islands Forum, 
and notes with satisfaction the request by New Caledonia, with the approval and 



 A/61/415

 

13 06-54882 
 

support of the French authorities, to obtain associate member status in the Pacific 
Islands Forum; 

 19. Welcomes also the cooperative attitude of other States and Territories in 
the region towards New Caledonia, its economic and political aspirations and its 
increasing participation in regional and international affairs; 

 20. Welcomes further the endorsement of the report of the Forum Ministerial 
Committee on New Caledonia by leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum at its 36th 
Summit, in October 2005 in Papua New Guinea, and the continuing role of the 
Forum Ministerial Committee in monitoring developments in the Territory and 
encouraging closer regional engagements; 

 21. Decides to keep under continuous review the process unfolding in New 
Caledonia as a result of the signing of the Nouméa Accord; 

 22. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to continue the examination of the question of the Non-Self-
Governing Territory of New Caledonia and to report thereon to the 
General Assembly at its sixty-second session. 

 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 14 
 

  Draft resolution III 
  Question of Tokelau 

 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the question of Tokelau, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Tokelau,1 

 Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
all resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to Non-Self-Governing 
Territories, in particular General Assembly resolution 60/116 of 8 December 2005, 

 Noting with appreciation the continuing exemplary cooperation of New 
Zealand as the administering Power with regard to the work of the Special 
Committee relating to Tokelau and its readiness to permit access by United Nations 
visiting missions to the Territory, 

 Also noting with appreciation the collaborative contribution to the 
development of Tokelau by New Zealand and the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations 
Development Programme, 

 Recalling the inauguration in 1999 of a national legislative body, the General 
Fono, based on village elections by universal adult suffrage and the assumption by 
that body in June 2003 of full responsibility for the Tokelau budget, 

 Recalling also the report of the United Nations mission dispatched in August 
2002 to Tokelau at the invitation of the Government of New Zealand and the 
representatives of Tokelau,2 

 Noting that, as a small island Territory, Tokelau exemplifies the situation of 
most remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories and that, as a case study pointing to 
successful cooperation for decolonization, Tokelau has wider significance for the 
United Nations as it seeks to complete its work in decolonization, 

 Recalling that New Zealand and Tokelau signed in November 2003 a 
document entitled “Joint statement of the principles of partnership”, which sets out 
in writing, for the first time, the rights and obligations of the two partner countries, 

 Bearing in mind the decision of the General Fono at its meeting in November 
2003, following extensive consultations undertaken in all three villages, to explore 
formally with New Zealand the option of self-government in free association and its 
decision in August 2005 to hold a referendum on self-government on the basis of a 
draft constitution for Tokelau and a treaty of free association with New Zealand, 

 1. Notes that Tokelau remains firmly committed to the development of its 
capacity for self-government and to an act of self-determination that would result in 
Tokelau assuming a status in accordance with the options on future status for Non-

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 
chap. X. 

 2  A/AC.109/2002/31. 



 A/61/415

 

15 06-54882 
 

Self-Governing Territories contained in principle VI of the annex to General 
Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960; 

 2. Welcomes the substantial progress made towards the devolution of power 
to the three taupulega (village councils), in particular the delegation of the 
Administrator’s powers to the three taupulega with effect from 1 July 2004 and the 
assumption by each taupulega from that date of full responsibility for the 
management of all its public services;  

 3. Recalls the decision of the General Fono in November 2003, following 
extensive consultations in all three villages and a meeting of the Special Committee 
on the Constitution of Tokelau, to explore formally with New Zealand the option of 
self-government in free association, and the discussions subsequently held between 
Tokelau and New Zealand pursuant to the General Fono decision; 

 4. Recalls also the decision of the General Fono in August 2005 to hold a 
referendum on self-government on the basis of a draft constitution for Tokelau and a 
treaty of free association with New Zealand, and notes the enactment by the General 
Fono of rules for the referendum; 

 5. Welcomes the invitation extended to the United Nations by Tokelau and 
New Zealand to monitor Tokelau’s act of self-determination; 

 6. Acknowledges Tokelau’s initiative in devising a strategic economic 
development plan for the period 2002-2005, and notes that a strategic plan for the 
period 2006-2009 is now being developed in consultation with New Zealand; 

 7. Also acknowledges the continuing assistance that New Zealand has 
committed to promoting Tokelau’s welfare, as well as the cooperation of the United 
Nations Development Programme, including the relief and recovery assistance 
provided in the aftermath of Cyclone Percy in 2005; 

 8. Further acknowledges Tokelau’s need for continued support, given the 
adjustments that are taking place with the strengthening of its capacity for self-
government, and the ongoing responsibility of Tokelau’s external partners to assist 
Tokelau in balancing its desire to be self-reliant to the greatest extent possible with 
its need for external assistance; 

 9. Welcomes the establishment of the Tokelau International Trust Fund to 
support the future development needs of Tokelau and the offer of a donor round 
table by the United Nations Development Programme, and calls upon Member 
States and international and regional agencies to announce contributions to the Fund 
and thereby lend practical support to assist this emerging country in overcoming the 
problems of smallness, isolation and lack of resources; 

 10. Also welcomes the assurance of the Government of New Zealand that it 
will meet its obligations to the United Nations with respect to Tokelau and abide by 
the freely expressed wishes of the people of Tokelau with regard to their future 
status; 

 11. Further welcomes the cooperative attitude of the other States and 
territories in the region towards Tokelau, and their support for its economic and 
political aspirations and increasing participation in regional and international 
affairs; 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 16 
 

 12. Welcomes the associate membership of Tokelau in the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, and its recent accession to 
membership in the Forum Fisheries Agency, observer status at the Pacific Islands 
Forum and associate membership in the South Pacific Applied Geoscience 
Commission; 

 13. Calls upon the administering Power and United Nations agencies to 
continue to provide assistance to Tokelau as it further develops its economy and 
governance structures; 

 14. Welcomes the actions taken by the administering Power to transmit 
information regarding the political, economic and social situation of Tokelau to the 
Secretary-General; 

 15. Notes with satisfaction the successful visit to Tokelau in October 2004 by 
the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples; 

 16. Notes the considerable progress made towards the adoption of a 
Constitution and of national symbols by Tokelau, the steps taken by Tokelau and 
New Zealand to agree to a draft treaty of free association as a basis for an act of 
self-determination and the support expressed by Tokelauan communities in New 
Zealand for the move by Tokelau towards self-determination; 

 17. Commends the professional and transparent conduct of the referendum to 
determine the future status of Tokelau, which was held from 11 to 15 February 2006 
and monitored by the United Nations;  

 18. Notes that the referendum failed by a narrow margin to produce the two-
thirds majority of the valid votes cast required by the General Fono to change 
Tokelau’s status as a Non-Self-Governing Territory under the administration of New 
Zealand; 

 19. Welcomes the agreement of New Zealand to the request by the Tokelau 
Council of Ongoing Government to maintain the referendum package of a draft 
Constitution and draft Treaty of Free Association as a possible basis for a future act 
of self-determination by Tokelau; 

 20. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question of 
the Non-Self-Governing Territory of Tokelau and to report thereon to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-second session. 

 



 A/61/415

 

17 06-54882 
 

  Draft resolution IV 
  Questions of American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the British 

Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guam, Montserrat,  
Pitcairn, Saint Helena, the Turks and Caicos Islands and  
the United States Virgin Islands 
 
 

  A 
  General 

 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the questions of the Non-Self-Governing Territories of 
American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman 
Islands, Guam, Montserrat, Pitcairn, Saint Helena, the Turks and Caicos Islands and 
the United States Virgin Islands, hereinafter referred to as “the Territories”, 

 Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,1 

 Recalling all resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to those 
Territories, including, in particular, the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly 
at its sixtieth session on the individual Territories covered by the present resolution, 

 Recognizing that all available options for self-determination of the Territories 
are valid as long as they are in accordance with the freely expressed wishes of the 
peoples concerned and in conformity with the clearly defined principles contained 
in General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, 1541 (XV) of 
15 December 1960 and other resolutions of the Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 1541 (XV), containing the principles that should guide 
Member States in determining whether or not an obligation exists to transmit the 
information called for under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations, 

 Expressing concern that more than forty-five years after the adoption of the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,2 
there still remain a number of Non-Self-Governing Territories, 

 Conscious of the importance of continuing effective implementation of the 
Declaration, taking into account the target set by the United Nations to eradicate 
colonialism by 2010 and the plan of action for the Second International Decade for 
the Eradication of Colonialism,3 

 Recognizing that the specific characteristics and the sentiments of the peoples 
of the Territories require flexible, practical and innovative approaches to the options 
of self-determination, without any prejudice to territorial size, geographical 
location, size of population or natural resources, 

 Taking note of the stated positions of the Government of the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the stated position of the Government of 

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 
chap. IX. 

 2  Resolution 1514 (XV). 
 3  A/56/61, annex. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 18 
 

the United States of America on the Non-Self-Governing Territories under their 
administration, 

 Taking note also of the stated positions of the representatives of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories before the Special Committee and in its regional seminars,  

 Noting the constitutional developments in some Non-Self-Governing 
Territories affecting the internal structure of governance about which the Special 
Committee has received information, 

 Aware of the importance both to the Territories and to the Special Committee 
of the participation of elected and appointed representatives of the Territories in the 
work of the Special Committee, 

 Convinced that the wishes and aspirations of the peoples of the Territories 
should continue to guide the development of their future political status and that 
referendums, free and fair elections and other forms of popular consultation play an 
important role in ascertaining the wishes and aspirations of the people, 

 Convinced also that any negotiations to determine the status of a Territory 
must take place with the active involvement and participation of the people of that 
Territory, under the supervision of the United Nations, on a case-by-case basis, and 
that the views of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in respect of 
their right to self-determination should be ascertained, 

 Aware of the importance of the international financial services for the 
economies of some of the Non-Self-Governing Territories,  

 Noting the continued cooperation of the Non-Self-Governing Territories at the 
local and regional levels, including participation in the work of regional 
organizations, 

 Mindful that United Nations visiting and special missions provide an effective 
means of ascertaining the situation in the Territories, that some Territories have not 
received a United Nations visiting mission for a long time and that no visiting 
missions have been sent to some of the Territories, and considering the possibility of 
sending further visiting missions to the Territories at an appropriate time and in 
consultation with the administering Powers,  

 Mindful also that, in order for the Special Committee to enhance its 
understanding of the political status of the peoples of the Territories and to fulfil its 
mandate effectively, it is important for it to be apprised by the administering Powers 
and to receive information from other appropriate sources, including the 
representatives of the Territories, concerning the wishes and aspirations of the 
peoples of the Territories, 

 Recognizing the need for the Special Committee to ensure that the appropriate 
bodies of the United Nations embark actively on a public awareness campaign 
aimed at assisting the peoples of the Territories in gaining an understanding of the 
options of self-determination, 

 Mindful, in this connection, that the holding of regional seminars in the 
Caribbean and Pacific regions and at Headquarters and other venues, with the active 
participation of representatives of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, provides a 
helpful means for the Special Committee to fulfil its mandate, and that the regional 
nature of the seminars, which alternate between the Caribbean and the Pacific, is a 



 A/61/415

 

19 06-54882 
 

crucial element in the context of a United Nations programme for ascertaining the 
political status of the Territories, 

 Mindful also that the 2006 Pacific regional seminar, originally scheduled to be 
held in Timor-Leste from 23 to 25 May 2006, is to be rescheduled to a later date in 
2006, 

 Conscious of the particular vulnerability of the Territories to natural disasters 
and environmental degradation, and, in this connection, bearing in mind the 
applicability to the Territories of the programmes of action of all United Nations 
world conferences4 and special sessions of the General Assembly in the economic 
and social sphere,  

 Noting with appreciation the contribution to the development of some 
Territories by the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations 
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, the Economic 
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean and the Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and the Pacific, as well as regional institutions such as the 
Caribbean Development Bank, the Caribbean Community, the Organization of 
Eastern Caribbean States, the Pacific Islands Forum and the agencies of the Council 
of Regional Organizations in the Pacific, 

 Aware that the Human Rights Committee, as part of its mandate under the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,5 reviews the status of the self-
determination process of small island Territories under examination by the Special 
Committee,  

 Recalling the ongoing efforts of the Special Committee in carrying out a 
critical review of its work with the aim of making appropriate and constructive 
recommendations and decisions to attain its objectives in accordance with its 
mandate, 

 Recognizing that the annual background working papers prepared by the 
Secretariat on developments in each of the small Territories,6 as well as the 
substantive documentation and information furnished by independent experts, 
scholars, non-governmental organizations and other independent sources, have 
provided important inputs in updating the present resolution, 

__________________ 

 4  See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, 
Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum); Report of the World Conference on Natural Disaster 
Reduction, Yokohama, Japan, 23-27 May 1994 (A/CONF.172/9), chap. I; Report of the Global 
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, 
Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and 
corrigenda), chap. I; Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, 
Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, 
resolution 1, annex; Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements 
(Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), 
chap. I, resolution 1, annex II; Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, 
Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales 
No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex; Report of the World Conference 
against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, Durban, 
31 August-8 September 2001 (A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1), chap. I. 

 5  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 6  See A/AC.109/2006/3-8, 11 and 12, 13 and 13/Corr.1, 15 and 16. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 20 
 

 1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of the Territories to self-
determination, in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and with 
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), containing the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples; 

 2. Also reaffirms that, in the process of decolonization, there is no 
alternative to the principle of self-determination, which is also a fundamental human 
right, as recognized under the relevant human rights conventions; 

 3. Further reaffirms that it is ultimately for the peoples of the Territories 
themselves to determine freely their future political status in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Charter, the Declaration and the relevant resolutions of 
the General Assembly, and in that connection reiterates its long-standing call for the 
administering Powers, in cooperation with the territorial Governments and 
appropriate bodies of the United Nations system, to develop political education 
programmes for the Territories in order to foster an awareness among the people of 
their right to self-determination in conformity with the legitimate political status 
options, based on the principles clearly defined in General Assembly resolution 
1541 (XV); 

 4. Requests the administering Powers to transmit regularly to the 
Secretary-General information called for under Article 73 e of the Charter; 

 5. Stresses the importance of the Special Committee being apprised of the 
views and wishes of the peoples of the Territories and enhancing its understanding 
of their conditions, including the nature and scope of the existing political and 
constitutional arrangements between the Non-Self-Governing Territories and their 
respective administering Powers; 

 6. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Powers under the 
Charter to promote the economic and social development and to preserve the 
cultural identity of the Territories, and recommends that priority continue to be 
given, in consultation with the territorial Governments concerned, to the 
strengthening and diversification of their respective economies; 

 7. Requests the Special Committee to continue to follow closely the 
developments in legislation in the area of international financial services and their 
impact on the economy in some of the Territories; 

 8. Requests the Territories and the administering Powers to take all 
necessary measures to protect and conserve the environment of the Territories 
against any degradation, and once again requests the specialized agencies concerned 
to continue to monitor environmental conditions in the Territories; 

 9. Welcomes the participation of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in 
regional activities, including the work of regional organizations; 

 10. Stresses the importance of implementing the plan of action for the 
Second International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism,3 in particular by 
expediting the application of the work programme for the decolonization of each 
Non-Self-Governing Territory, on a case-by-case basis, and by completing the 
periodic analyses of the progress and extent of the implementation of the 
Declaration in each Territory; 



 A/61/415

 

21 06-54882 
 

 11. Calls upon the administering Powers to participate in and cooperate fully 
with the work of the Special Committee in order to implement the provisions of 
Article 73 e of the Charter and the Declaration, and in order to advise the Special 
Committee on the implementation of provisions under Article 73 b of the Charter on 
efforts to promote self-government in the Territories; 

 12. Urges Member States to contribute to the efforts of the United Nations to 
usher in a world free of colonialism within the Second International Decade for the 
Eradication of Colonialism, and calls upon them to continue to give their full 
support to the Special Committee in its endeavours towards that noble goal; 

 13. Notes that a number of Non-Self-Governing Territories have expressed 
concern at the procedure followed by some administering Powers, contrary to the 
wishes of the Territories themselves, of amending or enacting legislation for 
application to the Territories, either through Orders in Council, in order to apply to 
the Territories the international treaty obligations of the administering Power, or 
through unilateral application of laws and regulations; 

 14. Takes note of the constitutional reviews in the Territories administered by 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and led by the territorial 
Governments, designed to address the internal constitutional structure within the 
present territorial arrangement; 

 15. Also takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the midterm 
review of the Second International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism,7 and 
reiterates its long-standing request that the Secretary-General report to the General 
Assembly at its next session on the implementation of decolonization resolutions 
adopted since the declaration of the First and Second International Decades;  

 16. Reiterates its request that the Human Rights Committee collaborate with 
the Special Committee, within the framework of its mandate on the right to self-
determination as contained in the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights5 with the aim of exchanging information, given that the Committee reviews 
political and constitutional developments in many of the Non-Self-Governing 
Territories that are under review by the Special Committee; 

 17. Requests the Special Committee to collaborate with the Permanent 
Forum on Indigenous Issues and the Committee on the Elimination of Racial 
Discrimination, within the framework of their respective mandates, with the aim of 
exchanging information on developments in those Non-Self-Governing Territories 
which are reviewed by these bodies; 

 18. Also requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question 
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to report thereon to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-second session and on the implementation of the present 
resolution. 
 

  B 
  Individual Territories 

 

 The General Assembly, 

 Referring to resolution A above, 
__________________ 

 7  A/60/71 and Add.1. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 22 
 

  I 
American Samoa 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on American 
Samoa8 and other relevant information, 

 Taking note also of the position of the administering Power and the statements 
made by representatives of American Samoa in the regional seminars expressing 
satisfaction with the Territory’s present relationship with the United States of 
America, 

 Noting that the Territory’s non-voting delegate to the Congress of the United 
States of America has formally requested that the administering Power declare its 
official position on the status of American Samoa before the Special Committee on 
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 

 Noting with satisfaction the establishment of the Future Political Status Study 
Commission, which began its work in June 2006, to study alternative forms of 
future political status open to American Samoa and to assess the advantages and 
disadvantages of each, 

 Recalling the negative economic impacts of Cyclone Heta in 2004 and 
Cyclone Olaf in 2005 on the agricultural sector, noting the importance to the 
economy of remittances and tourism, and bearing in mind the request of the 
territorial Government to the administering Power to continue to extend favourable 
tax benefits with regard to its exports, 

 1. Notes that the Department of the Interior of the United States of America 
provides that the Secretary of the Interior has administrative jurisdiction over 
American Samoa;9 

 2. Also notes that American Samoa continues to be the only United States 
Territory to receive financial assistance from the administering Power for the 
operations of the territorial Government, and calls upon the administering Power to 
continue to assist the territorial Government in the diversification of its economy; 

 3. Welcomes the invitation extended to the Special Committee by the 
Governor of American Samoa and reiterated, most recently at the Caribbean 
regional seminar held in Canouan, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, from 
17 to 19 May 2005, to send a visiting mission to the Territory, calls upon the 
administering Power to facilitate such a mission, and requests the Chairman of the 
Special Committee to take all the necessary steps to that end; 

 4. Takes note of the statement of the representative of the Governor of the 
Territory at the Caribbean regional seminar in 2005 requesting the Special 
Committee to provide information on the process of self-governance, which could 
be provided within the context of a visiting mission, or by other acceptable means; 

 5. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory in facilitating the 
work of the newly established Future Political Status Study Commission, consistent 
with Article 73 b of the Charter of the United Nations, and calls upon the relevant 
United Nations organizations to provide assistance to the Territory, if requested, in 
the context of its public education programme; 

__________________ 

 8 A/AC.109/2006/7. 
 9  Pursuant to Secretary’s Order 2657, Department of the Interior, United States of America. 



 A/61/415

 

23 06-54882 
 

  II 
Anguilla 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Anguilla10 
and other relevant information, 

 Taking note also of the constitutional review process resumed by the territorial 
Government in 2006, 

 Recalling the holding of the 2003 Caribbean regional seminar in Anguilla, the 
first time that the seminar had been held in a Non-Self-Governing Territory, and the 
desire of the territorial Government and the people of Anguilla for a visiting mission 
by the Special Committee, 

 Noting the appointment by the administering Power of a new Governor who 
maintains reserved powers in the Territory,  

 Aware that the Government has placed a halt on all new and major foreign 
investment tourism-related projects in order to carefully manage the development of 
the island’s economy to achieve long-term sustainability, 

 1. Welcomes the establishment of a new Constitutional and Electoral 
Reform Commission in 2006, with the aim of making recommendations to the 
administering Power on proposed changes to the Constitution in place in the 
Territory; 

 2. Notes that changes in the visa requirements for Anguillan passport 
holders entering nearby French Saint Martin could make it more difficult for them to 
enter the French overseas department, the closest neighbour to the Territory;  

 3. Welcomes the participation of the Territory as an associate member in the 
Caribbean Community, the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States and the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean; 
 

  III 
Bermuda 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Bermuda11 
and other relevant information, 

 Conscious of the different viewpoints of the political parties on the future 
status of the Territory,  

 Noting the statement of the Premier of Bermuda in his Founder’s Day address 
that there could never be a true democracy as long as the country remains a colony 
or an overseas dependent Territory, and that only with independence can national 
unity be forged and pride in being Bermudian fully developed, 

 Bearing in mind the conclusions in the report of the United Nations special 
mission to Bermuda, which visited the Territory in March and May 2005,12 

 1. Welcomes the dispatch of the United Nations special mission to Bermuda 
at the request of the territorial Government and with the concurrence of the 

__________________ 

 10  A/AC.109/2006/4. 
 11  A/AC.109/2006/6. 
 12  A/AC.109/2005/19. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 24 
 

administering Power, which provided information to the people of the Territory on 
the role of the United Nations in the process of self-determination, on the legitimate 
political status options as clearly defined in General Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) 
of 15 December 1960 and on the experiences of other small States that have 
achieved a full measure of self-government; 

 2. Also welcomes the 2005 report of the Bermuda Independence 
Commission, which provides a thorough and meticulous examination of the facts 
surrounding independence, and takes note of the plans for public meetings and the 
presentation of a Green Paper to the House of Assembly followed by a White Paper 
outlining the policy proposals for an independent Bermuda; 

 3. Decides to follow closely the public consultations on the future political 
status of Bermuda under way in the Territory, and requests the relevant United 
Nations organizations to provide assistance to the Territory, if requested, in the 
context of its public education programme; 
 

  IV 
British Virgin Islands 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the British 
Virgin Islands13 and other relevant information, 

 Recalling the 1993 report of the Constitutional Commissioners, appointed by 
the administering Power to review the existing Constitution, and its 
recommendation to assess the costs, obligations and liabilities of independence, and 
the 1996 debate on the report in the Legislative Council, 

 Welcoming the establishment of the Constitutional Commission in 2004 and 
the completion of its report in 2005 providing recommendations on constitutional 
modernization, and noting that the Legislative Council of the Territory debated the 
report in 2005, 

 Noting the appointment by the administering Power of a new Governor who 
maintains reserved powers in the Territory, 

 Also noting that the Territory continues to emerge as one of the world’s leading 
offshore financial centres, 

 1. Takes note of the statement made by the representative of the Legislative 
Council of the Territory at the Caribbean regional seminar held in Canouan, Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, from 17 to 19 May 2005, who presented an analysis of 
the internal constitutional review process; 

 2. Welcomes the 2005 report of the Constitutional Commission, which 
contains a series of recommendations on constitutional advancement, including the 
scaling back of the powers of the appointed Governor, and also welcomes the 
discussions which commenced in 2006 between the elected Government and the 
administering Power on constitutional advancement and devolution of power; 

 3. Further welcomes the ongoing work of the Inter-Virgin Islands Council 
between the elected Governments of the British Virgin Islands and the United States 

__________________ 

 13  A/AC.109/2006/12. 



 A/61/415

 

25 06-54882 
 

Virgin Islands as a mechanism for functional cooperation between the two 
neighbouring Territories; 
 

V 
Cayman Islands 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the Cayman 
Islands14 and other relevant information, 

 Noting the 2002 report of the Constitutional Modernization Review 
Commission, which contained a draft constitution for the consideration of the 
people of the Territory, the 2003 draft constitution offered by the administering 
Power and the subsequent discussions between the Territory and the administering 
Power in 2003, 

 Also noting the 2003 visit to the Territory by the Chairman of the Special 
Committee at the invitation of the Cayman Islands Chamber of Commerce, 

 1. Takes note of the decision by the new territorial Government to reopen 
discussions with the administering Power in 2006 on constitutional modernization 
with the aim of ascertaining the views of the people by way of referendum; 

 2. Also takes note of the statement made by the representative of the Non-
Governmental Organizations Constitutional Working Group of the Cayman Islands 
Chamber of Commerce at the Caribbean regional seminar held in Canouan, Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, from 17 to 19 May 2005, which called for a 
comprehensive educational programme, to be defined by the Special Committee, on 
the issue of self-determination, as well as a visiting mission to the Territory; 
 

  VI 
Guam 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Guam15 and 
other relevant information, 

 Recalling that, in a referendum held in 1987, the registered and eligible voters 
of Guam endorsed a draft Guam Commonwealth Act that would establish a new 
framework for relations between the Territory and the administering Power, 
providing for a greater measure of internal self-government for Guam and 
recognition of the right of the Chamorro people of Guam to self-determination for 
the Territory, 

 Recalling also the requests by the elected representatives and 
non-governmental organizations of the Territory that Guam not be removed from the 
list of the Non-Self-Governing Territories with which the Special Committee is 
concerned, pending the self-determination of the Chamorro people and taking into 
account their legitimate rights and interests, 

 Aware that negotiations between the administering Power and the territorial 
Government on the draft Guam Commonwealth Act are no longer continuing and 
that Guam has established the process for a self-determination vote by the eligible 
Chamorro voters, 

__________________ 

 14  A/AC.109/2006/16. 
 15  A/AC.109/2006/8. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 26 
 

 Cognizant that the administering Power continues to implement its programme 
of transferring surplus federal land to the Government of Guam, 

 Noting that the people of the Territory have called for reform in the 
programme of the administering Power with respect to the thorough, unconditional 
and expeditious transfer of land property to the people of Guam, 

 Aware of concerns expressed by many residents regarding the potential social 
and other impacts of the impending transfer of additional military personnel of the 
administering Power to the Territory, 

 Conscious that immigration into Guam has resulted in the indigenous 
Chamorros becoming a minority in their homeland, 

 Recalling the dispatch in 1979 of a United Nations visiting mission to the 
Territory, and noting the recommendation of the 1996 Pacific regional seminar for 
sending a visiting mission to Guam, 

 Also recalling the invitation made in 2000 by the Governor and legislature of 
the Territory to hold the Pacific regional seminar in the Territory and the opposition 
to the invitation expressed by the administering Power, 

 1. Calls once again upon the administering Power to take into consideration 
the expressed will of the Chamorro people as supported by Guam voters in the 
plebiscite of 1987 and as provided for in Guam law, encourages the administering 
Power and the territorial Government of Guam to enter into negotiations on the 
matter, and requests the administering Power to inform the Secretary-General of 
progress to that end; 

 2. Requests the administering Power to continue to assist the elected 
territorial Government in achieving its political, economic and social goals; 

 3. Also requests the administering Power, in cooperation with the territorial 
Government, to continue to transfer land to the original landowners of the Territory, 
to continue to recognize and respect the political rights and the cultural and ethnic 
identity of the Chamorro people of Guam and to take all necessary measures to 
respond to the concerns of the territorial Government with regard to the question of 
immigration; 

 4. Further requests the administering Power to cooperate in establishing 
programmes specifically intended to promote the sustainable development of 
economic activities and enterprises, noting the special role of the Chamorro people 
in the development of Guam; 

 5. Takes note of the request by the elected Governor to the administering 
Power to lift restrictions to allow for foreign airlines to transport passengers 
between Guam and the United States of America to provide for a more competitive 
market and increased visitor arrivals; 
 



 A/61/415

 

27 06-54882 
 

  VII 
Montserrat 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Montserrat16 
and other relevant information, 

 Taking note with interest of the statements made and the information on the 
political and economic situation in Montserrat provided by the Chief Minister of the 
Territory to the Caribbean regional seminar, held at The Valley, Anguilla, from 
20 to 22 May 2003, 

 Noting with concern the continued consequences of the  volcanic eruption, 
which led to the evacuation of three quarters of the Territory’s population to safe 
areas of the island and to areas outside the Territory, which continues to have 
enduring consequences for the economy of the island, 

 Welcoming the continued assistance provided to the Territory by States 
members of the Caribbean Community, in particular Antigua and Barbuda, which 
has offered safe refuge and access to educational and health facilities, as well as 
employment for thousands who have left the Territory, 

 Noting the continuing efforts of the administering Power and the territorial 
Government to deal with the consequences of the volcanic eruption, 

 1. Calls upon the administering Power, the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system, as well as regional and other 
organizations, to continue to provide assistance to the Territory in alleviating the 
consequences of the volcanic eruption; 

 2. Recalls the 2002 report of the Constitutional Review Commission, which 
contains a series of recommendations on constitutional advancement, including the 
devolution of power from the appointed Governor to the elected Government, and 
the call in favour of a free-association arrangement; 

 3. Welcomes the convening of a committee of the House of Assembly in 
2005 to review the report, and the subsequent discussions between the elected 
Government and the administering Power on constitutional advancement and 
devolution of power; 
 

  VIII 
Pitcairn 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Pitcairn17 and 
other relevant information, 

 Taking into account the unique nature of Pitcairn in terms of population and 
area, 

 Noting the position of the representative of the elected Government, as 
expressed at the 2004 Pacific regional seminar, that the people of the Territory did 
not fully understand all the possibilities or the significance of the various 
self-determination options that might be available to them, and that the review of 
the Constitution was deferred to after 2006, 

__________________ 

 16  A/AC.109/2006/13 and Corr.1. 
 17  A/AC.109/2006/5. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 28 
 

 1. Requests the administering Power to continue its assistance for the 
improvement of the economic, social, educational and other conditions of the 
population of the Territory and to continue its discussions with the representatives 
of Pitcairn on how best to support their economic security; 

 2. Takes note of the position of the representative of the elected 
Government of the Territory favouring discussions on self-determination in advance 
of a constitutional review, and notes that a United Nations visiting mission to the 
Territory would heighten the awareness of the people of their political future; 
 

  IX 
Saint Helena 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Saint 
Helena18 and other relevant information, 

 Taking into account the unique character of Saint Helena, its population and its 
natural resources, 

 Taking note of the constitutional review process led by the territorial 
Government and the consultative poll with regard to a new Constitution held in 
Saint Helena on 25 May 2005, 

 Aware of the efforts of the administering Power and the territorial authorities 
to improve the socio-economic conditions of the population of Saint Helena, in 
particular in the sphere of food production, continuing high unemployment and 
limited transport and communications, 

 Noting the importance of improving the infrastructure and accessibility of 
Saint Helena, 

 Noting also the importance of the right to nationality for Saint Helenians and 
their request that it, in principle, be included in the new Constitution, 

 Noting with concern the problem of unemployment on the island and the joint 
action of the administering Power and the territorial Government to deal with it, 

 1. Welcomes the continuing constitutional review process and the recent 
consultative poll led by the Government of Saint Helena in cooperation with the 
administering Power; 

 2. Also welcomes the decision by the administering Power to provide 
funding for the construction of an international airport on Saint Helena to become 
operational in 2010, including all required infrastructure; 

 3. Requests the administering Power and relevant international 
organizations to continue to support the efforts of the territorial Government to 
address the socio-economic development challenges, including the high 
unemployment and the limited transport and communications problems, as well as 
to support the additional infrastructure required for the airport project; 

 4. Calls upon the administering Power to take into account the concerns of 
Saint Helenians with regard to the right to nationality; 
 

__________________ 

 18  A/AC.109/2006/3. 



 A/61/415

 

29 06-54882 
 

  X 
Turks and Caicos Islands 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the Turks and 
Caicos Islands19 and other relevant information, 

 Recalling the 2002 report of the Constitutional Modernization Review Body, 
which examined the existing Constitution and made recommendations on the 
internal structure of government and devolution of power from the appointed 
Governor to the elected Government, 

 Welcoming the dispatch of the United Nations special mission to the Turks and 
Caicos Islands in 2006, at the request of the territorial Government and with the 
concurrence of the administering Power, which provided information to the people 
of the Territory on the role of the United Nations in the process of 
self-determination, on the legitimate political status options as clearly defined in 
General Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) and on the experiences of other small 
States that have achieved a full measure of self-government, 

 Taking note of the conclusions of the report of the United Nations special 
mission to the Turks and Caicos Islands,20 

 1. Recalls the statement made by the Chief Minister of the Territory at the 
Caribbean regional seminar held in Canouan, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 
from 17 to 19 May 2005, that his Government was in favour of a reasonable period 
of full internal self-government before moving to independence; 

 2. Takes note of the announcement made by the Chief Minister in 2006 of 
the conclusion of discussions between the territorial Government and the 
administering Power resulting in an agreement for an advance constitution, which 
would be circulated to the Government and the opposition for comment and to the 
general public for information, with the consultative process concluding with a 
debate in the Legislative Council; 

 3. Also takes note of the significant and steady period of economic 
expansion, in particular over the last decade, fuelled by the emergence of high-end 
tourism, and the need for attention to be paid to the enhancement of social cohesion 
in the Territory; 
 

  XI 
United States Virgin Islands 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the United 
States Virgin Islands21 and other relevant information, 

 Taking note with interest of the statements made and the information provided 
by the representative of the Governor of the Territory at the Caribbean regional 
seminar held in Canouan, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, from 17 to 19 May 
2005, 

 Noting the continuing interest of the territorial Government in seeking 
associate membership in the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States and observer 

__________________ 

 19  A/AC.109/2006/15. 
 20  A/AC.109/2006/19. 
 21  A/AC.109/2006/11. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 30 
 

status in the Caribbean Community and the pending request by the Territory to the 
administering Power for the delegation of authority to proceed, as well as the 2003 
resolution of the territorial legislature in support of that request, 

 Noting also the expressed interest of the territorial Government in being 
included in regional programmes of the United Nations Development Programme 
and in the records and archives management programme of the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, 

 Recalling that the Territory has not received a United Nations visiting mission 
since 1977, and bearing in mind the formal request of the Territory for such a 
mission in 1993 to assist the Territory in its political education process and to 
observe the Territory’s only referendum on political status options in its history, 

 Noting the ongoing cooperation between the territorial Government and 
Denmark on the repatriation of artefacts and archives, 

 Also noting that the convening of a fifth Constitutional Convention to review 
the existing Revised Organic Act, which organizes the internal governance 
arrangement, has been postponed to 2007, 

 1. Requests the administering Power to continue to assist the territorial 
Government in achieving its political, economic and social goals; 

 2. Once again requests the administering Power to facilitate the 
participation of the Territory, as appropriate, in various organizations, in particular 
the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, the Caribbean Community and the 
Association of Caribbean States; 

 3. Calls for the inclusion of the Territory in regional programmes of the 
United Nations Development Programme, consistent with the participation of other 
Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 4. Welcomes the establishment of the Inter-Virgin Islands Council between 
the elected Governments of the United States Virgin Islands and the British Virgin 
Islands as a mechanism of functional cooperation between the two neighbouring 
Territories; 

 5. Notes the position of the territorial Government supporting the ownership 
and control of the natural resources of the Territory, including marine resources, and 
its calls for the return of those marine resources to its jurisdiction; 

 6. Welcomes the cooperation agreements existing between the Territory and 
Denmark, the former colonial Power of the Territory, on the exchange of artefacts 
and the repatriation of archival material. 

 



 A/61/415

 

31 06-54882 
 

  Draft resolution V 
Dissemination of information on decolonization 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the dissemination of 
information on decolonization and publicity for the work of the United Nations in 
the field of decolonization,1 

 Recalling General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, 
containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and Peoples, and other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations concerning 
the dissemination of information on decolonization, in particular Assembly 
resolution 60/118 of 8 December 2005, 

 Recognizing the need for flexible, practical and innovative approaches towards 
reviewing the options of self-determination for the peoples of Non-Self-Governing 
Territories with a view to implementing the plan of action for the Second 
International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism,2 

 Reiterating the importance of dissemination of information as an instrument 
for furthering the aims of the Declaration, and mindful of the role of world public 
opinion in effectively assisting the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories to 
achieve self-determination, 

 Recognizing the role played by the administering Powers in transmitting 
information to the Secretary-General in accordance with the terms of Article 73 e of 
the Charter of the United Nations, 

 Also recognizing the role of the Department of Public Information of the 
Secretariat, through its United Nations information centres, in the dissemination of 
information at the regional level on the activities of the United Nations, 

 Recalling its resolution 60/112 of 8 December 2005, in which it requested the 
Department, in consultation with the United Nations Development Programme, the 
specialized agencies and the Special Committee, to prepare an information leaflet on 
assistance programmes available to the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to 
disseminate it widely in them, 

 Aware of the role of non-governmental organizations in the dissemination of 
information on decolonization, 

 1. Approves the activities in the field of dissemination of information on 
decolonization undertaken by the Department of Public Information and the 
Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat, in accordance with the relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations on decolonization; 

 2. Considers it important to continue and expand its efforts to ensure the 
widest possible dissemination of information on decolonization, with particular 

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 
chap. III. 

 2  A/56/61, annex. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 32 
 

emphasis on the options of self-determination available for the peoples of the 
Non-Self-Governing Territories, and to this end, requests the Department of Public 
Information, including through the United Nations information centres in the 
relevant regions, to disseminate material to the Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 3. Requests the Secretary-General to further enhance the information 
provided on the United Nations decolonization website by including the statements 
and scholarly papers presented at the regional seminars, as well as the full series of 
reports of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation 
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples;  

 4. Requests the Department of Public Information to implement the relevant 
provisions of General Assembly resolution 60/112 on the preparation of an 
information leaflet on the assistance programmes available to the Non-Self-
Governing Territories; 

 5. Requests the Department of Political Affairs and the Department of 
Public Information to implement the recommendations of the Special Committee to 
continue their efforts to take measures through all the media available, including 
publications, radio and television, as well as the Internet, to give publicity to the 
work of the United Nations in the field of decolonization and, inter alia: 

 (a) To develop procedures to collect, prepare and disseminate, particularly to 
the Territories, basic material on the issue of self-determination of the peoples of the 
Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 (b) To seek the full cooperation of the administering Powers in the discharge 
of the tasks referred to above; 

 (c) To develop a programme of collaboration with the appropriate regional 
and intergovernmental organizations, particularly in the Pacific and Caribbean 
regions, by holding periodic expert briefings and exchanging information; 

 (d) To encourage the involvement of non-governmental organizations in the 
dissemination of information on decolonization; 

 (e) To encourage the involvement of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in 
the dissemination of information on decolonization; 

 (f) To report to the Special Committee on measures taken in the 
implementation of the present resolution; 

 6. Requests all States, including the administering Powers, to accelerate the 
dissemination of information referred to in paragraph 2 above; 

 7. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine this question and 
to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session on the implementation 
of the present resolution. 



 A/61/415

 

33 06-54882 
 

  Draft resolution VI 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having examined the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples,1 

 Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
all its subsequent resolutions concerning the implementation of the Declaration, the 
most recent of which was resolution 60/119 of 8 December 2005, as well as the 
relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 

 Bearing in mind its resolution 55/146 of 8 December 2000, by which it 
declared the period 2001-2010 the Second International Decade for the Eradication 
of Colonialism, and the need to examine ways to ascertain the wishes of the peoples 
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories on the basis of resolution 1514 (XV) and 
other relevant resolutions on decolonization, 

 Welcoming the Plan of Implementation of the Decolonization Mandate 2006-
2007,2 which organizes the actions of the decolonization mandate to be carried out 
by the wider United Nations system, 

 Recognizing that the eradication of colonialism has been one of the priorities 
of the United Nations and continues to be one of its priorities for the decade that 
began in 2001, 

 Reconfirming the need to take measures to eliminate colonialism by 2010, as 
called for in its resolution 55/146, 

 Reiterating its conviction of the need for the eradication of colonialism, as 
well as racial discrimination and violations of basic human rights, 

 Noting with satisfaction the achievements of the Special Committee in 
contributing to the effective and complete implementation of the Declaration and 
other relevant resolutions of the United Nations on decolonization, 

 Stressing the importance of the formal participation of the administering 
Powers in the work of the Special Committee, 

 Noting with interest the cooperation and active participation of some 
administering Powers in the work of the Special Committee, and encouraging the 
others also to do so, 

 Taking note that the Pacific regional seminar, originally scheduled to convene 
from 23 to 25 May 2006 in Timor-Leste, is to be rescheduled to a later date in 2006, 

 1. Reaffirms its resolution 1514 (XV) and all other resolutions and decisions 
on decolonization, including its resolution 55/146, by which it declared the period 
2001-2010 the Second International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, and 

__________________ 
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23). 
2 A/60/853-E/2006/75, annex. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 34 
 

calls upon the administering Powers, in accordance with those resolutions, to take 
all necessary steps to enable the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
concerned to exercise fully as soon as possible their right to self-determination, 
including independence; 

 2. Reaffirms once again that the existence of colonialism in any form or 
manifestation, including economic exploitation, is incompatible with the Charter of 
the United Nations, the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;3 

 3. Reaffirms its determination to continue to take all steps necessary to 
bring about the complete and speedy eradication of colonialism and the faithful 
observance by all States of the relevant provisions of the Charter, the Declaration on 
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights; 

 4. Affirms once again its support for the aspirations of the peoples under 
colonial rule to exercise their right to self-determination, including independence, in 
accordance with relevant resolutions of the United Nations on decolonization; 

 5. Calls upon the administering Powers to cooperate fully with the Special 
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to finalize before the end of 2007 a 
constructive programme of work on a case-by-case basis for the Non-Self-
Governing Territories to facilitate the implementation of the mandate of the Special 
Committee and the relevant resolutions on decolonization, including resolutions on 
specific Territories; 

 6. Commends the professional, open and transparent referendum to 
determine the future status of Tokelau, held under United Nations supervision from 
11 to 15 February 2006; 

 7. Notes that the referendum did not produce the two-thirds majority of the 
valid votes cast required by the General Fono to change the status of Tokelau as a 
Non-Self-Governing Territory under the administration of New Zealand; 

 8. Welcomes the agreement of New Zealand and the Tokelau Council of 
Ongoing Government to maintain the referendum package of a draft constitution 
and draft treaty of free association as a possible future basis for an act of 
self-determination by Tokelau; 

 9. Also welcomes the dispatch of the United Nations special mission to the 
Turks and Caicos Islands, at the request of the territorial Government and with the 
concurrence of the administering Power, which provided information to the people 
of the Territory on the role of the United Nations in the process of 
self-determination, on the legitimate political status options, as clearly defined in 
General Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, and on the 
experiences of other small States which have achieved a full measure of 
self-government; 

__________________ 
3 Resolution 217 A (III). 



 A/61/415

 

35 06-54882 
 

 10. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek suitable means for 
the immediate and full implementation of the Declaration and to carry out the 
actions approved by the General Assembly regarding the International Decade for 
the Eradication of Colonialism and the Second International Decade for the 
Eradication of Colonialism in all Territories that have not yet exercised their right to 
self-determination, including independence, and in particular: 

 (a) To formulate specific proposals to bring about an end to colonialism and 
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session; 

 (b) To continue to examine the implementation by Member States of 
resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions on decolonization; 

 (c) To continue to examine the political, economic and social situation in the 
Non-Self-Governing Territories, and to recommend, as appropriate, to the General 
Assembly the most suitable steps to be taken to enable the populations of those 
Territories to exercise their right to self-determination, including independence, in 
accordance with relevant resolutions on decolonization, including resolutions on 
specific Territories; 

 (d) To finalize before the end of 2007 a constructive programme of work on 
a case-by-case basis for the Non-Self-Governing Territories to facilitate the 
implementation of the mandate of the Special Committee and the relevant 
resolutions on decolonization, including resolutions on specific Territories; 

 (e) To continue to dispatch visiting missions to the Non-Self-Governing 
Territories in accordance with relevant resolutions on decolonization, including 
resolutions on specific Territories; 

 (f) To conduct seminars, as appropriate, for the purpose of receiving and 
disseminating information on the work of the Special Committee, and to facilitate 
participation by the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in those 
seminars; 

 (g) To take all necessary steps to enlist worldwide support among 
Governments, as well as national and international organizations, for the 
achievement of the objectives of the Declaration and the implementation of the 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations; 

 (h) To observe annually the Week of Solidarity with the Peoples of 
Non-Self-Governing Territories;4 

 11. Recognizes that the plan of action for the Second International Decade 
for the Eradication of Colonialism,5 the case-by-case process of assessment of the 
attainment of self-government in each Territory, and the Plan of Implementation of 
the Decolonization Mandate 2006-20072 represent an important legislative authority 
for the attainment of self-government by the end of 2010; 

 12. Calls upon all States, in particular the administering Powers, as well as 
the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, to 
give effect within their respective spheres of competence to the recommendations of 

__________________ 
4 See resolution 54/91. 
5 A/56/61, annex. 



A/61/415  
 

06-54882 36 
 

the Special Committee for the implementation of the Declaration and other relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations; 

 13. Calls upon the administering Powers to ensure that the economic 
activities in the Non-Self-Governing Territories under their administration do not 
adversely affect the interests of the peoples but instead promote development, and to 
assist them in the exercise of their right to self-determination; 

 14. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to 
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable rights of the peoples of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories to their natural resources, including land, and to establish and 
maintain control over the future development of those resources, and requests the 
administering Powers to take all necessary steps to protect the property rights of the 
peoples of those Territories; 

 15. Urges all States, directly and through their action in the specialized 
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, to provide moral and 
material assistance to the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and 
requests the administering Powers to take steps to enlist and make effective use of 
all possible assistance, on both a bilateral and a multilateral basis, in the 
strengthening of the economies of those Territories; 

 16. Reaffirms that the United Nations visiting missions to the Territories are 
an effective means of ascertaining the situation in the Territories, as well as the 
wishes and aspirations of their inhabitants, and calls upon the administering Powers 
to continue to cooperate with the Special Committee in the discharge of its mandate 
and to facilitate visiting missions to the Territories; 

 17. Calls upon the administering Powers that have not participated formally 
in the work of the Special Committee to do so at its session in 2007; 

 18. Requests the Secretary-General, the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system to provide economic, social and other 
assistance to the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to continue to do so, as 
appropriate, after they exercise their right to self-determination, including 
independence; 

 19. Approves the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples covering its work during 2006, including the 
programme of work envisaged for 2007; 1 

 20. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Committee with 
the facilities and services required for the implementation of the present resolution, 
as well as the other resolutions and decisions on decolonization adopted by the 
General Assembly and the Special Committee. 

 



 A/61/415

 

37 06-54882 
 

30. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft decision:  
 
 

  Question of Gibraltar 
 
 

 The General Assembly, recalling its decision 60/525 of 8 December 2005 and 
the statements agreed to by the Governments of Spain and the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Brussels on 27 November 1984,1 and in 
Madrid on 27 October 2004, and noting the establishment, pursuant to the latter, of 
the tripartite Forum for Dialogue on Gibraltar, separate from the Brussels Process, 
under the statement made jointly by the Governments of Spain, the United Kingdom 
and Gibraltar on 16 December 2004: 

 (a) Urges both Governments, while listening to the interests and aspirations 
of Gibraltar, to reach, in the spirit of the 27 November 1984 statement, a definitive 
solution to the question of Gibraltar, in the light of relevant resolutions of the 
General Assembly and applicable principles, and in the spirit of the Charter of the 
United Nations; 

 (b) Welcomes the successful outcome of the first package of measures 
concluded in the tripartite Forum for Dialogue on Gibraltar. 

 

__________________ 

 1  A/39/732, annex. 


