






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/61/413

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
31 October 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-54870 (E)    171106     
*0654870* 

Sixty-first session 
Agenda item 37 

 
 
 

  Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the 
specialized agencies and the international institutions 
associated with the United Nations 
 
 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee) 
 
 

  Rapporteur: Ms. Rana Salayeva (Azerbaijan) 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 13 September 2006, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 
its sixty-first session the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized 
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations” and 
to allocate it to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth 
Committee). 

2. At its 1st meeting, on 28 September 2006, the Fourth Committee decided to 
hold a general debate covering agenda items 35 to 39. The general debate on the 
items was held at the 2nd to 4th and 6th meetings, from 2 to 4 and on 6 October (see 
A/C.4/61/SR.2-4 and 6). The Committee took action on item 37 at its 7th meeting, 
on 11 October (see A/C.4/61/SR.7). 

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following 
documents: 

 (a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;1 

 (b) Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/62). 
__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 
chaps. VI and XII. 



A/61/413  
 

06-54870 2 
 

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, introduced the report of that 
Committee. At the same meeting, the representative of Saint Lucia, in his capacity 
as Chairman of the Special Committee, made a statement in which he gave an 
account of the relevant activities of the Committee during 2006 (see 
A/C.4/61/SR.2). 
 
 

 II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in document 
A/61/23, chapter XII 
 
 

5. At the 7th meeting, on 11 October, the representative of Saint Lucia orally 
revised operative paragraph 12 of draft resolution III, entitled “Implementation of 
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 
by the specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the 
United Nations”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the Special Committee 
(A/61/23), by which the words “its associated members” were replaced by the words 
“the Non-Self-Governing Territories that are associate members of the 
Commission”. 

6. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft resolution, as 
orally amended, by a recorded vote of 99 to none, with 53 abstentions (see para. 8). 
The voting was as follows:2 

In favour: 
 Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Bahamas, 

Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, 
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon 
Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), 
Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 None. 

__________________ 

 2  Subsequently, the delegations of Bolivia and Lebanon indicated that they had intended to vote in 
favour. 



 A/61/413
 

3 06-54870 
 

Abstaining: 
 Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bosnia 

and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, 
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Micronesia (Federated States of), Moldova, Monaco, 
Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, 
Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, 
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 

7. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements in explanation of vote 
were made by the representatives of Finland (on behalf of the States Members of the 
United Nations that are members of the European Union) and Argentina (see 
A/C.4/61/SR.7). 

 



A/61/413  
 

06-54870 4 
 

 III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization 
Committee (Fourth Committee) 
 
 

8. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution: 
 
 

  Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the  
specialized agencies and the international institutions  
associated with the United Nations 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized 
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations”, 

 Having also considered the report of the Secretary-General1 and the report of 
the Economic and Social Council2 on the item, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item,3 

 Recalling its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of 
15 December 1960 and the resolutions of the Special Committee, as well as other 
relevant resolutions and decisions, including in particular Economic and Social 
Council resolution 2005/49 of 27 July 2005, 

 Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the 
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries 
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government 
of the African Union, the Pacific Islands Forum and the Caribbean Community, 

 Conscious of the need to facilitate the implementation of the Declaration on 
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in 
resolution 1514 (XV), 

 Noting that the large majority of the remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories 
are small island Territories, 

 Welcoming the assistance extended to Non-Self-Governing Territories by 
certain specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, 
in particular the United Nations Development Programme, 

 Also welcoming the current participation in the capacity of observers of those 
Non-Self-Governing Territories that are associate members of regional commissions 
in the world conferences in the economic and social sphere, subject to the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly and in accordance with relevant United Nations 

__________________ 

 1 A/61/62. 
 2 E/2006/47. 
 3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/61/23), 

chap. VI. 



 A/61/413
 

5 06-54870 
 

resolutions and decisions, including resolutions and decisions of the Assembly and 
the Special Committee on specific Territories, 

 Noting that only some specialized agencies and other organizations of the 
United Nations system have been involved in providing assistance to Non-Self-
Governing Territories, 

 Stressing that, because the development options of the small island Non-Self-
Governing Territories are limited, there are special challenges to planning for and 
implementing sustainable development and that those Territories will be constrained 
in meeting the challenges without the continuing cooperation and assistance of the 
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, 

 Stressing also the importance of securing the necessary resources for funding 
expanded programmes of assistance for the peoples concerned and the need to enlist 
the support of all major funding institutions within the United Nations system in that 
regard, 

 Reaffirming the mandates of the specialized agencies and other organizations 
of the United Nations system to take all appropriate measures, within their 
respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full implementation of General 
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions, 

 Expressing its appreciation to the African Union, the Pacific Islands Forum, 
the Caribbean Community and other regional organizations for the continued 
cooperation and assistance they have extended to the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system in this regard, 

 Expressing its conviction that closer contacts and consultations between and 
among the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations 
system and regional organizations help to facilitate the effective formulation of 
programmes of assistance to the peoples concerned, 

 Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuous review the activities 
of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in 
the implementation of the various United Nations resolutions and decisions relating 
to decolonization, 

 Bearing in mind the extremely fragile economies of the small island Non-Self-
Governing Territories and their vulnerability to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, 
cyclones and sea-level rise, and recalling the relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 60/112 of 8 December 2005 on the implementation of 
the Declaration by the specialized agencies and the international institutions 
associated with the United Nations, 

 1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;1 

 2. Recommends that all States intensify their efforts in the specialized 
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in which they are 
members to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General 
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), and other relevant resolutions of the United 
Nations; 



A/61/413  
 

06-54870 6 
 

 3. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organizations and 
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute to the 
implementation of the Declaration and all other relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly; 

 4. Reaffirms also that the recognition by the General Assembly, the Security 
Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the aspirations of the 
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to exercise their right to self-
determination entails, as a corollary, the extension of all appropriate assistance to 
those peoples; 

 5. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system that have continued to cooperate with 
the United Nations and the regional and subregional organizations in the 
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations, and requests all the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system to implement the relevant provisions of 
those resolutions; 

 6. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United 
Nations system and international and regional organizations to examine and review 
conditions in each Territory so as to take appropriate measures to accelerate 
progress in the economic and social sectors of the Territories; 

 7. Urges those specialized agencies and organizations of the United Nations 
system that have not yet provided assistance to Non-Self-Governing Territories to 
do so as soon as possible; 

 8. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations and institutions 
of the United Nations system and regional organizations to strengthen existing 
measures of support and formulate appropriate programmes of assistance to the 
remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories, within the framework of their respective 
mandates, in order to accelerate progress in the economic and social sectors of those 
Territories; 

 9. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United 
Nations system concerned to provide information on: 

 (a) Environmental problems facing the Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 (b) The impact of natural disasters, such as hurricanes and volcanic 
eruptions, and other environmental problems, such as beach and coastal erosion and 
droughts, on those Territories; 

 (c) Ways and means to assist the Territories to fight drug trafficking, money-
laundering and other illegal and criminal activities; 

 (d) The illegal exploitation of the marine resources of the Territories and the 
need to utilize those resources for the benefit of the peoples of the Territories; 

 10. Recommends that the executive heads of the specialized agencies and 
other organizations of the United Nations system formulate, with the active 
cooperation of the regional organizations concerned, concrete proposals for the full 
implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and submit the 
proposals to their governing and legislative organs; 



 A/61/413
 

7 06-54870 
 

 11. Also recommends that the specialized agencies and other organizations of 
the United Nations system continue to review at the regular meetings of their 
governing bodies the implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) 
and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations; 

 12. Welcomes the adoption by the Economic Commission for Latin America 
and the Caribbean of its resolutions 574 (XXVII) of 16 May 19984 and 598 (XXX) 
of 2 July 2004,5 calling for the creation of mechanisms for the Non-Self-Governing 
Territories that are associate members of the Commission to participate in the 
special sessions of the General Assembly, subject to the rules of procedure of the 
Assembly, to review and assess the implementation of the plans of action of those 
United Nations world conferences in which the Territories originally participated in 
the capacity of observer, and in the work of the Economic and Social Council and its 
subsidiary bodies; 

 13. Takes note of resolution 62 (XXI) of the Caribbean Development and 
Cooperation Committee, adopted on 17 January 2006, in which the Committee 
expressed support for the implementation of Commission resolution 598 (XXX) and 
requested the Commission to disseminate a background note on the matter;6 

 14. Requests the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to maintain close contact on these 
matters with the President of the Economic and Social Council; 

 15. Requests the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, in 
consultation with the United Nations Development Programme, the specialized 
agencies and the Special Committee, to prepare an information leaflet on assistance 
programmes available to the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to disseminate it 
widely in them; 

 16. Welcomes the continuing initiative exercised by the United Nations 
Development Programme in maintaining close liaison among the specialized 
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, including the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean and the Economic and 
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, and in providing assistance to the 
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 17. Encourages the Non-Self-Governing Territories to take steps to establish 
and/or strengthen disaster preparedness and management institutions and policies; 

 18. Requests the administering Powers concerned to facilitate, when 
appropriate, the participation of appointed and elected representatives of Non-Self-
Governing Territories in the relevant meetings and conferences of the specialized 
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, in accordance with 
relevant United Nations resolutions and decisions, including resolutions and 
decisions of the General Assembly and the Special Committee on specific 
Territories, so that the Territories may benefit from the related activities of those 
agencies and organizations; 

__________________ 

 4 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1998, Supplement No. 21 (E/1998/41), 
chap. III, sect. G. 

 5 Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 20 (E/2004/40), chap. IV, sect. D. 
 6 See LC/CAR/L.86, part III. 



A/61/413  
 

06-54870 8 
 

 19. Recommends that all Governments intensify their efforts in the 
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system of which 
they are members to accord priority to the question of providing assistance to the 
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 20. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized 
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out 
appropriate measures for implementing the relevant resolutions of the United 
Nations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, with the assistance of 
those agencies and organizations, a report on the action taken in implementation of 
the relevant resolutions, including the present resolution, since the circulation of his 
previous report; 

 21. Commends the Economic and Social Council for its debate and resolution 
on this question, and requests it to continue to consider, in consultation with the 
Special Committee, appropriate measures for the coordination of the policies and 
activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations 
system in implementing the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly; 

 22. Requests the specialized agencies to report periodically to the Secretary-
General on the implementation of the present resolution; 

 23. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to the 
governing bodies of the appropriate specialized agencies and international 
institutions associated with the United Nations so that those bodies may take the 
necessary measures to implement the resolution, and also requests the Secretary-
General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session on the 
implementation of the present resolution; 

 24. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question and 
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session. 

 


