






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/62/L.27

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
4 December 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-62518 (E)    061207 
*0762518* 

Sixty-second session 
Agenda item 77 (a) 
Oceans and the law of the sea 

 
 
 

  Brazil, Canada, Cape Verde, Fiji, Finland, Guatemala, Iceland, Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Mexico, Monaco, Norway, Philippines, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden 
and United States of America: draft resolution 
 
 

  Oceans and the law of the sea 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 49/28 of 6 December 1994, 52/26 of 26 November 1997, 
54/33 of 24 November 1999, 57/141 of 12 December 2002, 58/240 of 23 December 
2003, 59/24 of 17 November 2004, 60/30 of 29 November 2005, 61/222 of 
20 December 2006 and other relevant resolutions concerning the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (“the Convention”),1 

 Having considered the report of the Secretary-General,2 the addendum 
thereto,3 the report of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group to study 
issues relating to the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction4 and also the reports on the work of the United 
Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the 
Sea (“the Consultative Process”) at its eighth meeting5 and on the seventeenth 
Meeting of States Parties to the Convention,6 

 Noting with satisfaction the twenty-fifth anniversary of the opening for 
signature of the Convention, and emphasizing the pre-eminent contribution provided 
by the Convention to the strengthening of peace, security, cooperation and friendly 
relations among all nations in conformity with the principles of justice and equal 
rights and to the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples 
of the world, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations 
as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, as well as for the sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas, 

__________________ 

 1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1833, No. 31363. 
 2  A/62/66. 
 3  A/62/66/Add.1. 
 4  A/61/65. 
 5  A/62/169. 
 6  SPLOS/164 and Corr.1. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 2 
 

 Emphasizing the universal and unified character of the Convention, and 
reaffirming that the Convention sets out the legal framework within which all 
activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out and is of strategic importance as 
the basis for national, regional and global action and cooperation in the marine 
sector, and that its integrity needs to be maintained, as recognized also by the United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development in chapter 17 of Agenda 21,7 

 Recognizing the important contribution of sustainable development and 
management of the resources and uses of the oceans and seas to the achievement of 
international development goals, including those contained in the United Nations 
Millennium Declaration,8 

 Conscious that the problems of ocean space are closely interrelated and need 
to be considered as a whole through an integrated, interdisciplinary and intersectoral 
approach, and reaffirming the need to improve cooperation and coordination at the 
national, regional and global levels, in accordance with the Convention, to support 
and supplement the efforts of each State in promoting the implementation and 
observance of the Convention, and the integrated management and sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas, 

 Reiterating the essential need for cooperation, including through capacity-
building and transfer of marine technology, to ensure that all States, especially 
developing countries, in particular the least developed countries and small island 
developing States, as well as coastal African States, are able both to implement the 
Convention and to benefit from the sustainable development of the oceans and seas, 
as well as to participate fully in global and regional forums and processes dealing 
with oceans and law of the sea issues, 

 Emphasizing the need to strengthen the ability of competent international 
organizations to contribute, at the global, regional, subregional and bilateral levels, 
through cooperation programmes with Governments, to the development of national 
capacity in marine science and the sustainable management of the oceans and their 
resources, 

 Recalling that marine science is important for eradicating poverty, contributing 
to food security, conserving the world’s marine environment and resources, helping 
to understand, predict and respond to natural events and promoting the sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas, by improving knowledge, through sustained 
research efforts and the evaluation of monitoring results, and applying such 
knowledge to management and decision-making, 

 Recalling also its decision, in resolutions 57/141 and 58/240, to establish a 
regular process under the United Nations for global reporting and assessment of the 
state of the marine environment, including socio-economic aspects, both current and 
foreseeable, building on existing regional assessments, as recommended by the 
 

__________________ 

 7  Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, 
Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex II. 

 8  See resolution 55/2. 



 A/62/L.27
 

3 07-62518 
 

World Summit on Sustainable Development,9 and noting the need for cooperation 
among all States to this end, 

 Reiterating its concern at the adverse impacts on the marine environment and 
biodiversity, in particular on vulnerable marine ecosystems, including corals, of 
human activities, such as overutilization of living marine resources, the use of 
destructive practices, physical impacts by ships, the introduction of invasive alien 
species and marine pollution from all sources, including from land-based sources 
and vessels, in particular through the illegal discharge of oil and other harmful 
substances, the loss or release of fishing gear and the dumping of hazardous waste 
such as radioactive materials, nuclear waste and dangerous chemicals, 

 Expressing its serious concern over the current and projected adverse effects 
of anthropogenic and natural climate change on the marine environment and marine 
biodiversity, 

 Expressing also its deep concern over the vulnerability of the environment and 
the fragile ecosystems of the polar regions, including the Arctic Ocean and the 
Arctic ice cap, particularly affected by the projected adverse effects of climate 
change, 

 Encouraging States to continue to contribute to the specific efforts deployed 
within the framework of the International Polar Year with the goal of enhancing the 
knowledge of the polar regions by strengthening scientific cooperation, 

 Recognizing that there is a need for a more integrated approach and to further 
study and promote measures for enhanced cooperation and coordination relating to 
the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity beyond areas of national 
jurisdiction, 

 Recognizing also that the realization of the benefits of the Convention could be 
enhanced by international cooperation, technical assistance and advanced scientific 
knowledge, as well as by funding and capacity-building, 

 Recognizing further that hydrographic surveys and nautical charting are 
critical to the safety of navigation and life at sea, environmental protection, 
including the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems, and the economics of the 
global shipping industry, and recognizing in this regard that the move towards 
electronic charting not only provides significantly increased benefits for safe 
navigation and management of ship movement, but also provides data and 
information that can be used for sustainable fisheries activities and other sectoral 
uses of the marine environment, the delimitation of maritime boundaries and 
environmental protection, 

 Noting with concern the continuing problem of transnational organized crime 
and threats to maritime safety and security, including piracy, armed robbery at sea, 
smuggling and terrorist acts against shipping, offshore installations and other 
maritime interests, and noting the deplorable loss of life and adverse impact on 
international trade, energy security and the global economy resulting from such 
activities, 

__________________ 

 9  See Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and 
corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 4 
 

 Noting the importance of the delineation of the outer limits of the continental 
shelf beyond 200 nautical miles and that it is in the broader interest of the 
international community that States with a continental shelf beyond 200 nautical 
miles submit information on the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 
nautical miles to the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (“the 
Commission”), and noting in this regard that some States have already made 
submissions to the Commission, 

 Noting also that some States may face particular challenges in relation to 
preparing submissions to the Commission, 

 Noting further that financial and technical assistance may be sought by 
developing countries for activities in relation to preparing submissions to the 
Commission, including through the voluntary trust fund established by resolution 
55/7 of 30 October 2000 for the purpose of facilitating the preparation of 
submissions to the Commission for developing States, in particular the least 
developed countries and small island developing States, and compliance with article 
76 of the Convention, as well as other accessible international assistance, 

 Recognizing the important role for developing countries of the trust funds 
established by resolution 55/7 for the activities of the Commission and noting with 
appreciation the recent contributions made to them, 

 Reaffirming the importance of the work of the Commission for coastal States 
and the international community as a whole, 

 Noting the important role of the Commission in assisting States parties in the 
implementation of Part VI of the Convention, through the examination of 
information submitted by coastal States regarding the outer limits of the continental 
shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, and acknowledging in this regard the anticipated 
workload of the Commission owing to an increasing number of submissions, placing 
additional demands on its members and on the Division, and the need to ensure that 
the Commission can perform its functions under the Convention effectively and 
maintain its high level of quality and expertise, 

 Recognizing the importance and the contribution of the work over the past 
eight years of the Consultative Process established by resolution 54/33 to facilitate 
the annual review of developments in ocean affairs by the General Assembly and 
extended by resolutions 57/141 and 60/30, 

 Noting the responsibilities of the Secretary-General under the Convention and 
related resolutions of the General Assembly, in particular resolutions 49/28, 52/26 
and 54/33, and in this context the increase in activities of the Division for Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat (“the 
Division”), in particular in view of the growing number of requests to the Division 
for additional outputs and servicing of meetings, the increasing capacity-building 
activities, the need for enhanced support and assistance to the Commission and the 
role of the Division in inter-agency coordination and cooperation, 

 Emphasizing that underwater archaeological, cultural and historical heritage, 
including shipwrecks and watercrafts, holds essential information on the history of 
humankind and that such heritage is a resource that needs to be protected and 
preserved, 



 A/62/L.27
 

5 07-62518 
 

 Reaffirming the importance of the work of the International Seabed Authority 
(“the Authority”) in accordance with the Convention and the Agreement relating to 
the Implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 (“the Agreement”),10 

 Reaffirming also the importance of the work of the International Tribunal for 
the Law of the Sea (“the Tribunal”) in accordance with the Convention, 
 

 I. Implementation of the Convention and related agreements and instruments 
 

 1. Reaffirms its resolutions 49/28, 52/26, 54/33, 57/141, 58/240, 59/24, 
60/30, 61/222 and other relevant resolutions concerning the Convention;1 

 2. Also reaffirms the unified character of the Convention and the vital 
importance of preserving its integrity; 

 3. Calls upon all States that have not done so, in order to achieve the goal 
of universal participation, to become parties to the Convention and the Agreement;10 

 4. Calls upon all States that have not done so, in order to achieve the goal of 
universal participation, to become parties to the Agreement for the Implementation of 
the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 
10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish 
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks (“the Fish Stocks Agreement”);11 

 5. Calls upon States to harmonize, as a matter of priority, their national 
legislation with the provisions of the Convention and, where applicable, relevant 
agreements and instruments, to ensure the consistent application of those provisions 
and to ensure also that any declarations or statements that they have made or make 
when signing, ratifying or acceding to the Convention do not purport to exclude or 
to modify the legal effect of the provisions of the Convention in their application to 
the State concerned and to withdraw any such declarations or statements; 

 6. Calls upon States parties to the Convention to deposit with the Secretary-
General charts or lists of geographical coordinates, as provided for in the 
Convention; 

 7. Urges all States to cooperate, directly or through competent international 
bodies, in taking measures to protect and preserve objects of an archaeological and 
historical nature found at sea, in conformity with the Convention, and calls upon 
States to work together on such diverse challenges and opportunities as the 
appropriate relationship between salvage law and scientific management and 
conservation of underwater cultural heritage, increasing technological abilities to 
discover and reach underwater sites, looting and growing underwater tourism; 

 8. Notes the effort made by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
Cultural Organization with respect to the preservation of underwater cultural 
heritage, and notes in particular the rules annexed to the 2001 Convention on the 
Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage12 that address the relationship 

__________________ 

 10  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1836, No. 31364. 
 11  Ibid., vol. 2167, No. 37924. 
 12  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records of the General 

Conference, Thirty-first Session, Paris, 15 October-3 November 2001, vol. 1 and corrigendum: 
Resolutions, resolution 24, annex. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 6 
 

between salvage law and scientific principles of management, conservation and 
protection of underwater cultural heritage among parties, their nationals and vessels 
flying their flag; 

 9. Welcomes the decision taken by the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization at the thirty-first session of its General 
Conference to increase the resources available for the Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic Commission for the next biennium,13 which will enable that 
Commission to increase its activities on an incremental basis and strengthen its 
capacity within the framework of that organization; 
 

 II. Capacity-building 
 

 10. Calls upon donor agencies and international financial institutions to keep 
their programmes systematically under review to ensure the availability in all States, 
particularly in developing States, of the economic, legal, navigational, scientific and 
technical skills necessary for the full implementation of the Convention and the 
objectives of the present resolution, as well as the sustainable development of the 
oceans and seas nationally, regionally and globally, and in so doing to bear in mind 
the interests and needs of landlocked developing States; 

 11. Encourages intensified efforts to build capacity for developing countries, 
in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing States, as 
well as coastal African States, to improve hydrographic services and the production 
of nautical charts, including electronic charts, as well as the mobilization of 
resources and building of capacity with support from international financial 
institutions and the donor community; 

 12. Calls upon States and international financial institutions, including 
through bilateral, regional and global cooperation programmes and technical 
partnerships, to continue to strengthen capacity-building activities, in particular in 
developing countries, in the field of marine scientific research by, inter alia, training 
personnel to develop and enhance relevant expertise, providing the necessary 
equipment, facilities and vessels and transferring environmentally sound 
technologies; 

 13. Also calls upon States and international financial institutions, including 
through bilateral, regional and global cooperation programmes and technical 
partnerships, to strengthen capacity-building activities in developing countries, in 
particular least developed countries and small island developing States, to develop 
their maritime administration and appropriate legal frameworks to establish or 
enhance the necessary infrastructure, legislative and enforcement capabilities to 
promote effective compliance with, and implementation and enforcement of, their 
responsibilities under international law; 

 14. Recognizes the need to build the capacity of developing States to raise 
awareness of, and support implementation of, improved waste management 
practices, noting the particular vulnerability of small island developing States to the 
impact of marine pollution from land-based sources and marine debris; 

__________________ 

 13  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, draft decision, as contained in 
document 34 C/64. 



 A/62/L.27
 

7 07-62518 
 

 15. Also recognizes the importance of assisting developing States, in 
particular the least developed countries and small island developing States, as well 
as coastal African States, in implementing the Convention, and urges States, 
intergovernmental organizations and agencies, national institutions, 
non-governmental organizations and international financial institutions, as well as 
natural and juridical persons, to make voluntary financial or other contributions to 
the trust funds, as referred to in resolution 57/141, established for this purpose; 

 16. Encourages States to use the Criteria and Guidelines on the Transfer of 
Marine Technology, adopted by the Assembly of the Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic Commission of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
Cultural Organization,14 and recalls the important role of the secretariat of the 
Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission in the implementation and 
promotion of those Criteria and Guidelines; 

 17. Calls upon States to assist developing States, and especially the least 
developed countries and small island developing States, as well as coastal African 
States, at the bilateral and, where appropriate, multilateral level, in the preparation 
of submissions to the Commission regarding the establishment of the outer limits of 
the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, including the assessment of the 
nature and extent of the continental shelf of a coastal State through a desktop study, 
and the delineation of the outer limits of its continental shelf; 

 18. Calls upon the Division to actively disseminate information on relevant 
procedures related to the trust fund for the purpose of facilitating the preparation of 
submissions to the Commission and to continue its dialogue with potential 
beneficiaries with a view to providing financial support to developing countries for 
activities to facilitate timely submissions to the Commission, and welcomes in this 
regard the recent adoption of a new procedure in order to facilitate the access of 
developing countries to the trust fund; 

 19. Notes with appreciation the successful conduct by the Division of 
regional training courses in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean and the 
commencement of the conduct of subregional workshops by the Division, most 
recently in Brunei Darussalam from 12 to 16 February 2007 and South Africa from 
13 to 17 August 2007, the purpose of which was to train technical staff of coastal 
developing States in the delineation of the outer limits of the continental shelf 
beyond 200 nautical miles and in the preparation of submissions to the Commission, 
and requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with States and relevant 
international organizations and institutions, to continue making such training 
courses available; 

 20. Also notes with appreciation the development by the Division, in 
cooperation with other partners under the Train-Sea-Coast Programme, of a training 
course on the development, implementation and management of marine protected 
areas and the successful delivery of the first regional training course in Honiara 
from 15 to 20 January 2007; 

 21. Further notes with appreciation the regional workshops of the Tribunal, 
held in Libreville from 26 to 27 March 2007, Kingston from 16 to 18 April 2007 and 

__________________ 

 14  See Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, document IOC/INF-1203. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 8 
 

Singapore from 29 to 31 May 2007, on the role of the Tribunal in the settlement of 
disputes relating to the law of the sea; 

 22. Invites Member States and others in a position to do so to support the 
capacity-building activities of the Division, including, in particular, the training 
activities to assist developing States in the preparation of their submissions to the 
Commission, and invites Member States and others in a position to do so to 
contribute to the trust fund established by the Secretary-General for the Office of 
Legal Affairs of the Secretariat to support the promotion of international law; 

 23. Recognizes the importance of the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe 
Memorial Fellowship on the Law of the Sea, advises the Secretary-General to 
continue to finance the Fellowship from resources made available through an 
appropriate Office of Legal Affairs trust fund, and urges Member States and others 
in a position to do so to contribute to the further development of the Fellowship; 

 24. Takes note with satisfaction of the ongoing implementation of the United 
Nations and the Nippon Foundation Fellowship Programme, focusing on human 
resources development for developing coastal States parties and non-parties to the 
Convention in the field of ocean affairs and the law of the sea or related disciplines; 
 

 III. Meeting of States Parties 
 

 25. Welcomes the report of the seventeenth Meeting of States Parties to the 
Convention;6 

 26. Requests the Secretary-General to convene a special Meeting of States 
Parties to the Convention in New York on 30 January 2008 to fill a vacancy that has 
occurred following the resignation of one of the members of the Tribunal and to 
convene the eighteenth Meeting of States Parties to the Convention in New York 
from 13 to 20 June 2008 and to provide the services required; 

 27. Calls upon States parties to transmit to the Secretariat the credentials of 
representatives attending both Meetings as far in advance as is practicable, and no 
later than 29 January and 12 June 2008, respectively; 
 

 IV. Peaceful settlement of disputes 
 

 28. Notes with satisfaction the continued and significant contribution of the 
Tribunal to the settlement of disputes by peaceful means in accordance with Part XV 
of the Convention, and underlines the important role and authority of the Tribunal 
concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention and the Agreement; 

 29. Welcomes in this regard the establishment by the Tribunal of the 
Chamber for Maritime Delimitation Disputes; 

 30. Equally pays tribute to the important and long-standing role of the 
International Court of Justice with regard to the peaceful settlement of disputes 
concerning the law of the sea; 

 31. Notes that States parties to an international agreement related to the 
purposes of the Convention may submit to, inter alia, the Tribunal or the 
International Court of Justice any dispute concerning the interpretation or 
application of that agreement submitted in accordance with that agreement, and 



 A/62/L.27
 

9 07-62518 
 

notes also the possibility, provided for in the statutes of the Tribunal and the Court, 
to submit disputes to a chamber; 

 32. Encourages States parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to 
consider making a written declaration choosing from the means set out in article 287 
of the Convention for the settlement of disputes concerning the interpretation or 
application of the Convention and the Agreement, bearing in mind the 
comprehensive character of the dispute settlement mechanism provided for in Part 
XV of the Convention; 
 

 V. The Area 
 

 33. Notes the progress of the discussions on issues relating to the regulations 
for prospecting and exploration for polymetallic sulphides and cobalt-rich 
ferromanganese crusts in the Area, and reiterates the importance of the ongoing 
elaboration by the Authority, pursuant to article 145 of the Convention, of rules, 
regulations and procedures to ensure the effective protection of the marine 
environment, the protection and conservation of the natural resources of the Area 
and the prevention of damage to its flora and fauna from harmful effects that may 
arise from activities in the Area; 

 34. Also notes the importance of the responsibilities entrusted to the 
Authority by articles 143 and 145 of the Convention, which refer to marine 
scientific research and protection of the marine environment, respectively; 
 

 VI. Effective functioning of the Authority and the Tribunal 
 

 35. Appeals to all States parties to the Convention to pay their assessed 
contributions to the Authority and to the Tribunal in full and on time, and also 
appeals to States parties in arrears with their contributions to fulfil their obligations 
without delay; 

 36. Urges all States parties to the Convention to attend the sessions of the 
Authority, and calls upon the Authority to continue to pursue all options, including 
making concrete recommendations on the issue of dates, in order to improve 
attendance in Kingston and to ensure global participation; 

 37. Calls upon States that have not done so to consider ratifying or acceding 
to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Tribunal15 and to the 
Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Authority;16 

 38. Emphasizes the importance of the Tribunal’s rules and staff regulations 
promoting the recruitment of a geographically representative staff in the 
Professional and higher categories, and welcomes the actions taken by the Tribunal 
in observance of those rules and regulations, as reported by its President to the 
seventeenth Meeting of States Parties; 
 

 VII. The continental shelf and the work of the Commission 
 

 39. Encourages States parties to the Convention that are in a position to do 
so to make every effort to submit information to the Commission regarding the 

__________________ 

 15  SPLOS/25. 
 16  ISBA/4/A/8, annex. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 10 
 

establishment of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, 
in conformity with article 76 of the Convention and article 4 of annex II to the 
Convention, taking into account the decision of the eleventh Meeting of States 
Parties to the Convention17 and noting discussion of this issue at the seventeenth 
Meeting of States Parties;18 

 40. Notes with satisfaction the progress in the work of the Commission,19 
that it is giving current consideration to a number of submissions that have been 
made regarding the establishment of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 
200 nautical miles and that a number of States have advised of their intention to 
make submissions in the near future; 

 41. Notes that the anticipated heavy workload of the Commission, owing to 
an increasing number of submissions, places additional demands on its members and 
the Division, and in that regard emphasizes the need to ensure that the Commission 
can perform its functions efficiently and effectively and maintain its high level of 
quality and expertise; 

 42. Takes note of the decision of the Commission to maintain, to the extent 
possible given the term of office of the members of the Commission, continuity in 
the composition of subcommissions throughout the consideration of a submission;20 

 43. Also takes note of the decision of the seventeenth Meeting of States 
Parties to the Convention to continue to address, as a matter of priority, issues 
related to the workload of the Commission, including funding for its members 
attending the sessions of the Commission and the meetings of the 
subcommissions;21 

 44. Calls upon States whose experts are serving on the Commission to do 
their utmost to ensure the full participation of those experts in the work of the 
Commission, including the meetings of subcommissions, in accordance with the 
Convention; 

 45. Takes note with concern of the information provided by the Division 
regarding the current level of staffing, as well as inadequate hardware and software 
available to it which are required to support the Commission in the fulfilment of its 
functions;22 

 46. Endorses in this regard the request by the Meeting of States Parties to the 
Convention to the Secretary-General to take timely measures, before the twenty-first 
session of the Commission, to strengthen the capacity of the Division, serving as the 
secretariat of the Commission, within overall existing resource levels, in order to 
ensure enhanced support and assistance to the Commission and its subcommissions, 
in their consideration of submissions,23 as required by paragraph 9 of annex III to 
the rules of procedure of the Commission;24 

__________________ 

 17  SPLOS/72. 
 18  SPLOS/164 and Corr.1, paras. 56-78. 
 19  CLCS/54 and CLCS/56. 
 20  See CLCS/56, paras. 12-14. 
 21  See SPLOS/162. 
 22  See SPLOS/164 and Corr.1, para. 69. 
 23  SPLOS/162, para. 6. 
 24  CLCS/40. 



 A/62/L.27
 

11 07-62518 
 

 47. Urges the Secretary-General to continue to take all necessary actions to 
ensure that the Commission can fulfil the functions entrusted to it under the 
Convention; 

 48. Encourages States to make additional contributions to the trust fund for 
the purpose of facilitating the preparation of submissions to the Commission and to 
the voluntary trust fund established by resolution 55/7 for the purpose of defraying 
the cost of participation of the members of the Commission from developing States 
in the meetings of the Commission; 

 49. Approves the convening by the Secretary-General of the twenty-first and 
twenty-second sessions of the Commission in New York from 17 March to 18 April 
2008 and from 11 August to 12 September 2008, respectively, on the understanding 
that the following periods will be used for the technical examination of submissions 
at the Geographic Information System laboratories and other technical facilities of the 
Division: 17 to 28 March; 14 to 18 April; 11 to 15 August; and 2 to 12 September 
2008; 

 50. Expresses its firm conviction about the importance of the work of the 
Commission, carried out in accordance with the Convention, including with respect 
to the participation of the coastal State in relevant proceedings concerning its 
submission, and recognizes the continued need for active interaction between 
submitting States and the Commission; 

 51. Encourages States to continue exchanging views in order to increase 
understanding of issues, including expenditures involved, arising from the 
application of article 76 of the Convention, thus facilitating preparation of 
submissions by States, in particular developing States, to the Commission; 

 52. Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Member States, 
to continue supporting and organizing workshops or symposiums on scientific and 
technical aspects of the establishment of the outer limits of the continental shelf 
beyond 200 nautical miles, taking into account the need to strengthen capacity-
building for developing countries in preparing their submissions; 
 

 VIII. Maritime safety and security and flag State implementation 
 

 53. Encourages States to ratify or accede to international agreements 
addressing the safety and security of navigation, as well as maritime labour, and to 
adopt the necessary measures consistent with the Convention, aimed at 
implementing and enforcing the rules contained in those agreements; 

 54. Welcomes the adoption of the Work in Fishing Convention, 2007, and the 
related recommendation by the International Labour Conference on 14 June 2007, 
and encourages States to become parties to that Convention;  

 55. Also welcomes the continuing review by the International Maritime 
Organization and the International Labour Organization of Guidelines on Fair 
Treatment of Seafarers in the Event of a Maritime Accident,25 and notes the 
decision of the International Maritime Organization to continue to monitor the 
implementation of the Guidelines; 

__________________ 

 25  Adopted by the International Maritime Organization Legal Committee on 27 April 2006 as 
resolution LEG.3(91), and by the International Labour Organization Governing Body on 12 June 
2006, at its 296th session. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 12 
 

 56. Calls upon States to consider becoming members of the International 
Hydrographic Organization, and urges all States to work with that Organization to 
increase the coverage of hydrographic information on a global basis to enhance 
capacity-building and technical assistance and to promote safe navigation, 
especially in areas used for international navigation, ports and where there are 
vulnerable or protected marine areas; 

 57. Encourages States to draw up plans and to establish procedures to 
implement the Guidelines on Places of Refuge for Ships in Need of Assistance;26  

 58. Notes the progress in the implementation of the Action Plan for the 
Safety of Transport of Radioactive Material, approved by the Board of Governors of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency in March 2004,27 and encourages States 
concerned to continue their efforts in the implementation of all areas of the Action 
Plan;  

 59. Also notes that cessation of the transport of radioactive materials through 
the regions of small island developing States is an ultimate desired goal of small 
island developing States and some other countries, and recognizes the right of 
freedom of navigation in accordance with international law; that States should 
maintain dialogue and consultation, in particular under the aegis of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency and the International Maritime Organization, with the aim of 
improved mutual understanding, confidence-building and enhanced communication 
in relation to the safe maritime transport of radioactive materials; that States 
involved in the transport of such materials are urged to continue to engage in 
dialogue with small island developing States and other States to address their 
concerns; and that these concerns include the further development and 
strengthening, within the appropriate forums, of international regulatory regimes to 
enhance safety, disclosure, liability, security and compensation in relation to such 
transport;28  

 60. Notes the decision taken at the eighth meeting of the Conference of the 
Parties to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movement of 
Wastes and their Disposal aimed at reinforcing cooperation with the International 
Maritime Organization on regulations on the prevention of pollution from ships;29  

 61. Encourages States to cooperate to address threats to maritime safety and 
security, including piracy, armed robbery at sea, smuggling and terrorist acts against 
shipping, offshore installations and other maritime interests, through bilateral and 
multilateral instruments and mechanisms aimed at monitoring, preventing and 
responding to such threats;  

 62. Urges all States, in cooperation with the International Maritime 
Organization, to actively combat piracy and armed robbery at sea by adopting 
measures, including those relating to assistance with capacity-building through 
training of seafarers, port staff and enforcement personnel in the prevention, 
reporting and investigation of incidents, bringing the alleged perpetrators to justice, 
in accordance with international law, and by adopting national legislation, as well as 

__________________ 

 26  International Maritime Organization, Assembly resolution A.949(23). 
 27  Available from www-ns.iaea.org. 
 28  Resolution 60/1, para. 56 (o). 
 29  UNEP/CHW.8/16, annex I, decision VIII/9. 



 A/62/L.27
 

13 07-62518 
 

providing enforcement vessels and equipment and guarding against fraudulent ship 
registration;  

 63. Welcomes the significant decrease in the number of attacks by pirates and 
armed robbers in the Asian region through increased national action and regional 
cooperation; 

 64. Expresses deep concern about the continuous violent attacks on ships off 
the coast of Somalia, and welcomes the initiatives supported by the International 
Maritime Organization and the World Food Programme to strengthen cooperation 
among States to protect ships, in particular those transporting humanitarian aid, 
from acts of piracy and armed robbery in that region; 

 65. Notes the adoption of resolution A.1001(25) on 29 November 2007 by 
the Assembly of the International Maritime Organization on acts of piracy and 
armed robbery against ships in waters off the coast of Somalia, and encourages 
States to ensure its full implementation; 

 66. Also notes the initiatives taken by the Secretary-General of the 
International Maritime Organization, following up on resolution A.979(24) of the 
Assembly of the International Maritime Organization, to engage the international 
community in efforts to combat acts of piracy and armed robbery against ships 
sailing the waters off the coast of Somalia; 

 67. Calls upon States to become parties to the Convention for the 
Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation and the 
Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Fixed Platforms 
Located on the Continental Shelf,30 invites States to consider becoming parties to 
the 2005 Protocols amending those instruments,31 and also urges States parties to 
take appropriate measures to ensure the effective implementation of those 
instruments, through the adoption of legislation, where appropriate; 

 68. Also calls upon States to effectively implement the International Ship and 
Port Facility Security Code and the amendments to the International Convention for 
the Safety of Life at Sea,32 and to work with the International Maritime 
Organization to promote safe and secure shipping while ensuring freedom of 
navigation; 

 69. Welcomes the adoption of the Nairobi International Convention on the 
Removal of Wrecks, within the International Maritime Organization on 18 May 
2007, and invites States to note its opening for signature from 19 November 2007 to 
18 November 2008; 

 70. Requests States to take appropriate measures with regard to ships flying 
their flag or of their registry to address hazards that may be caused by wrecks and 
drifting or sunken cargo to navigation or the marine environment; 

 71. Urges all States, in cooperation with the International Maritime 
Organization, to improve the protection of offshore installations by adopting 
measures related to the prevention, reporting and investigation of acts of violence 

__________________ 

 30  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1678, No. 29004. 
 31  International Maritime Organization, documents LEG/CONF.15/21 and LEG/CONF.15/22. 
 32  International Maritime Organization, documents SOLAS/CONF.5/32 and 34, as well as 

resolution MSC.202(81) introducing the long-range identification and tracking of ships system. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 14 
 

against installations, in accordance with international law, and by implementing 
such measures through national legislation to ensure proper and adequate 
enforcement; 

 72. Calls upon States to ensure freedom of navigation, safety of navigation 
and the rights of transit passage, archipelagic sea lanes passage and innocent 
passage in accordance with international law, in particular the Convention; 

 73. Welcomes the work of the International Maritime Organization relating to 
the protection of shipping lanes of strategic importance and significance, and in 
particular in enhancing safety, security and environmental protection in straits used 
for international navigation, and calls upon the International Maritime Organization, 
States bordering straits and user States to continue their cooperation efforts to keep 
such straits safe, secure and environmentally protected and open to international 
navigation at all times, consistent with international law, in particular the 
Convention; 

 74. Calls upon user States and States bordering straits used for international 
navigation to cooperate by agreement on matters relating to navigational safety, 
including safety aids for navigation, and the prevention, reduction and control of 
pollution from ships, and welcomes developments in this regard; 

 75. Welcomes the progress in regional cooperation, including the Jakarta, 
Kuala Lumpur and Singapore Statements on Enhancement of Safety, Security and 
Environmental Protection in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore, adopted on 
8 September 2005,33 20 September 200634 and 6 September 2007,35 respectively, 
especially the formal establishment of the Cooperative Mechanism on safety of 
navigation and environmental protection to promote dialogue and facilitate close 
cooperation between the littoral States, user States, shipping industry and other 
stakeholders in line with article 43 of the Convention, and in implementing the 
Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project for the Straits of Malacca and 
Singapore, notes with appreciation that the Information Sharing Centre of the 
Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy and Armed Robbery against 
Ships in Asia is already operational in Singapore, and calls upon States to give 
immediate attention to adopting, concluding and implementing cooperation 
agreements at the regional level; 

 76. Calls upon States that have not yet done so to become parties to the 
Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing 
the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,36 and the 
Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational 
Organized Crime,37 and to take appropriate measures to ensure their effective 
implementation;  

__________________ 

 33  A/60/529, annex II. 
 34  A/61/584, annex. 
 35  A/62/518, annex. 
 36  Resolution 55/25, annex III. 
 37  Ibid., annex II. 



 A/62/L.27
 

15 07-62518 
 

 77. Calls upon States to ensure that masters on ships flying their flag take the 
steps required by relevant instruments38 to provide assistance to persons in distress 
at sea, and urges States to cooperate and to take all necessary measures to ensure the 
effective implementation of the amendments to the International Convention on 
Maritime Search and Rescue39 and to the International Convention for the Safety of 
Life at Sea40 relating to the delivery of persons rescued at sea to a place of safety, as 
well as of the associated Guidelines on the Treatment of Persons Rescued at Sea;41  

 78. Urges flag States without an effective maritime administration and 
appropriate legal frameworks to establish or enhance the necessary infrastructure, 
legislative and enforcement capabilities to ensure effective compliance with, and 
implementation and enforcement of, their responsibilities under international law 
and, until such action is taken, to consider declining the granting of the right to fly 
their flag to new vessels, suspending their registry or not opening a registry, and 
calls upon flag and port States to take all measures consistent with international law 
necessary to prevent the operation of substandard vessels;  

 79. Welcomes the audits that have been completed pursuant to the Voluntary 
International Maritime Organization Member State Audit Scheme,42 and the Code 
for the implementation of mandatory International Maritime Organization 
instruments,43 and encourages all flag States to volunteer to be audited; 
 

 IX. Marine environment and marine resources 
 

 80. Emphasizes once again the importance of the implementation of Part XII 
of the Convention in order to protect and preserve the marine environment and its 
living marine resources against pollution and physical degradation, and calls upon 
all States to cooperate and take measures consistent with the Convention, directly or 
through competent international organizations, for the protection and preservation of 
the marine environment;  

 81. Notes the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 
including the finding that, while the effects of observed ocean acidification on the 
marine biosphere are as yet undocumented, the progressive acidification of oceans is 
expected to have negative impacts on marine shell-forming organisms and their 
dependent species, and in this regard encourages States to urgently pursue further 
research on ocean acidification, especially programmes of observation and 
measurement; 

 82. Encourages States, individually or in collaboration with relevant 
international organizations and bodies, to enhance their scientific activity to better 
understand the effects of climate change on the marine environment and marine 
biodiversity and develop ways and means of adaptation; 

__________________ 

 38  The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, the International Convention 
on Maritime Search and Rescue, 1979, as amended, the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea, 1982, and the International Convention on Salvage, 1989. 

 39  International Maritime Organization, document MSC/78/26/Add.1, annex 5, resolution 
MSC.155(78). 

 40  Ibid., annex 3, resolution MSC.153(78). 
 41  Ibid., annex 34, resolution MSC.167(78). 
 42  International Maritime Organization, Assembly resolution A.974(24). 
 43  International Maritime Organization, Assembly resolution A.973(24). 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 16 
 

 83. Calls upon States to enhance their efforts to reduce the emission of 
greenhouse gases, in accordance with the principles contained in the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change,44 in order to reduce and tackle 
projected adverse effects of climate change on the marine environment and marine 
biodiversity; 

 84. Encourages States to ratify or accede to international agreements 
addressing the protection and preservation of the marine environment and its living 
marine resources against the introduction of harmful aquatic organisms and 
pathogens and marine pollution from all sources, and other forms of physical 
degradation, as well as agreements that provide for compensation for damage 
resulting from marine pollution, and to adopt the necessary measures consistent with 
the Convention aimed at implementing and enforcing the rules contained in those 
agreements;  

 85. Encourages States that have not yet done so to become parties to the 
1996 Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping 
of Wastes and Other Matter, 197245 (“the London Protocol”), and the Protocol on 
Preparedness, Response and Cooperation to Pollution Incidents by Hazardous and 
Noxious Substances, 2000;46  

 86. Welcomes the commencement of activities by the International Maritime 
Organization to investigate the development of international measures for 
minimizing the translocation of invasive aquatic species through biofouling of ships, 
and encourages States and relevant organizations and bodies to assist in that 
process; 

 87. Notes with appreciation the adoption of the Baltic Sea Action Plan, in 
Krakow, Poland, on 15 November 2007, by the Member States of the Helsinki 
Commission, the aim of which is to drastically reduce pollution in the Baltic Sea 
and restore it to a good ecological status by 2021; 

 88. Encourages States, in accordance with the Convention and other relevant 
instruments, either bilaterally or regionally, to jointly develop and promote 
contingency plans for responding to pollution incidents, as well as other incidents 
that are likely to have significant adverse effects on the marine environment and 
biodiversity;  

 89. Welcomes the activities of the United Nations Environment Programme 
relating to marine debris carried out in cooperation with relevant United Nations 
bodies and organizations, and encourages States to further develop partnerships with 
industry and civil society to raise awareness of the extent of the impact of marine 
debris on the health and productivity of the marine environment and consequent 
economic loss; 

 90. Urges States to integrate the issue of marine debris into national 
strategies dealing with waste management in the coastal zone, ports and maritime 
industries, including recycling, reuse, reduction and disposal, and to encourage the 
development of appropriate economic incentives to address this issue, including the 
development of cost recovery systems that provide an incentive to use port reception 

__________________ 

 44  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822. 
 45  International Maritime Organization, document IMO/LC.2/Circ.380. 
 46  HNS-OPRC/CONF/11/Rev.1, attachment 1. 



 A/62/L.27
 

17 07-62518 
 

facilities and discourage ships from discharging marine debris at sea, and 
encourages States to cooperate regionally and subregionally to develop and 
implement joint prevention and recovery programmes for marine debris;  

 91. Encourages States that have not done so to become parties to the 
Protocol of 1997 (Annex VI-Regulations for the Prevention of Air Pollution from 
Ships) to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 
1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto, and furthermore to ratify 
or accede to the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ 
Ballast Water and Sediments, 2004,47 thereby facilitating its early entry into force; 

 92. Welcomes the forthcoming entry into force on 17 September 2008 of the 
International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Fouling Systems on Ships, 
2001;48 

 93. Notes the ongoing work of the International Maritime Organization in 
accordance with its resolution on International Maritime Organization policies and 
practices related to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from ships49 and the 
workplan to identify and develop the mechanism or mechanisms needed to achieve 
the limitation or reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping, 
and welcomes ongoing efforts of that Organization in that regard; 

 94. Notes with appreciation the efforts of the International Maritime 
Organization in developing and approving an action plan to address the inadequacy 
of port waste reception facilities, and urges States to cooperate in correcting the 
shortfall in such facilities in accordance with the action plan; 

 95. Calls upon States to implement the Global Programme of Action for the 
Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities and to take all 
appropriate measures to fulfil the commitments of the international community 
embodied in the Beijing Declaration on Furthering the Implementation of the Global 
Programme of Action; 

 96. Welcomes the continued work of States, the United Nations Environment 
Programme and regional organizations in the implementation of the Global 
Programme of Action, and encourages increased emphasis on the link between 
freshwater, the coastal zone and marine resources in the implementation of 
international development goals, including those contained in the United Nations 
Millennium Declaration,8 and of the time-bound targets in the Plan of 
Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (“Johannesburg 
Plan of Implementation”),50 in particular the target on sanitation, and the Monterrey 
Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development;51  

 97. Also welcomes the decision of the twenty-ninth Consultative Meeting of 
Contracting Parties to the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by 

__________________ 

 47  International Maritime Organization, document BWM/CONF/36, annex. 
 48  International Maritime Organization, document AFS/CONF/26, annex. 
 49  International Maritime Organization, Assembly resolution A.963(23). 
 50  Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 

26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and 
corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex. 

 51  Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, 
annex. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 18 
 

Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, 1972 (“the London Convention”) and the 
second Meeting of Contracting Parties to the London Protocol, held from 5 to 
9 November 2007, which endorsed the June 2007 “Statement of concern” of their 
Scientific Groups;52 recognized that it was within the purview of each State to 
consider proposals on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the London 
Convention and Protocol; urged States to use the utmost caution when considering 
proposals for large-scale ocean fertilization operations; and took the view that, 
given the present state of knowledge regarding ocean fertilization, such large-scale 
operations were currently not justified; 

 98. Encourages States to support the further study and enhance 
understanding of ocean iron fertilization; 

 99. Reaffirms paragraph 119 of its resolution 61/222 regarding ecosystem 
approaches and oceans, including the proposed elements of an ecosystem approach, 
means to achieve implementation of an ecosystem approach and requirements for 
improved application of an ecosystem approach, and in this regard: 

 (a) Notes that continued environmental degradation in many parts of the 
world and increasing competing demands require an urgent response and the setting 
of priorities for management interventions aimed at conserving ecosystem integrity;  

 (b) Notes that ecosystem approaches to ocean management should be 
focused on managing human activities in order to maintain and, where needed, 
restore ecosystem health to sustain goods and environmental services, provide social 
and economic benefits for food security, sustain livelihoods in support of 
international development goals, including those contained in the Millennium 
Declaration, and conserve marine biodiversity;  

 (c) Recalls that States should be guided in the application of ecosystem 
approaches by a number of existing instruments, in particular the Convention, which 
sets out the legal framework for all activities in the oceans and seas, and its 
implementing Agreements, as well as other commitments, such as those contained in 
the Convention on Biological Diversity and the World Summit on Sustainable 
Development call for the application of an ecosystem approach by 2010; 

 (d) Encourages States to cooperate and coordinate their efforts and take, 
individually or jointly, as appropriate, all measures, in conformity with international 
law, including the Convention and other applicable instruments, to address impacts 
on marine ecosystems within and beyond areas of national jurisdiction, taking into 
account the integrity of the ecosystems concerned;  

 100. Invites States, in particular those States with advanced technology and 
marine capabilities, to explore prospects for improving cooperation with, and 
assistance to, developing States, in particular least developed countries and small 
island developing States, as well as coastal African States, with a view to better 
integrating into national policies and programmes sustainable and effective 
development in the marine sector;  

 101. Encourages the competent international organizations, the United 
Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and other funding agencies to 
consider expanding their programmes within their respective fields of competence 

__________________ 

 52  International Maritime Organization, document LC-LP.1/Circ.14, 13 July 2007. 



 A/62/L.27
 

19 07-62518 
 

for assistance to developing countries and to coordinate their efforts, including in 
the allocation and application of Global Environment Facility funding; 

 102. Notes the information provided by the Secretary-General relating to the 
study on the assistance available to and measures that may be taken by developing 
States, in particular the least developed countries and small island developing 
States, as well as coastal African States, to realize the benefits of sustainable and 
effective development of marine resources and uses of the oceans within the limits 
of national jurisdiction, to be presented to the General Assembly at its sixty-third 
session pursuant to paragraph 88 of resolution 61/222, urges States and competent 
international organizations and global and regional funding agencies to provide 
further information, and requests the study to be prepared in continuing cooperation 
with such States and organizations and based on information so provided or 
disseminated and otherwise available in the public domain; 
 

 X. Marine biodiversity 
 

 103. Reaffirms its role relating to the conservation and sustainable use of 
marine biological diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction, notes the work of 
States and relevant complementary intergovernmental organizations and bodies on 
those issues, including the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and invites them to contribute to its 
consideration of these issues within the areas of their respective competence; 

 104. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General relating to the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity beyond areas of 
national jurisdiction,53 prepared and released in response to the request in paragraph 
92 of resolution 61/222; 

 105. Reaffirms its request to the Secretary-General to convene a meeting of 
the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group in accordance with paragraph 91 
of resolution 61/222 and paragraphs 79 and 80 of resolution 60/30, to take place in 
New York from 28 April to 2 May 2008, and to provide the services required; 

 106. Encourages States to include relevant experts in their delegations 
attending the meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group;  

 107. Recognizes the importance of making the outcomes of the Ad Hoc Open-
ended Informal Working Group widely available; 

 108. Notes the work under the Jakarta Mandate on Marine and Coastal 
Biological Diversity54 and the Convention on Biological Diversity elaborated 
programme of work on marine and coastal biological diversity,55 as well as the 
relevant decisions adopted at the eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to 
the Convention on Biological Diversity, held in Curitiba, Brazil, from 20 to 
31 March 2006;56  

 109. Reaffirms the need for States and competent international organizations 
to urgently consider ways to integrate and improve, based on the best available 
scientific information and in accordance with the Convention and related 

__________________ 

 53  A/62/66/Add.2. 
 54  See A/51/312, annex II, decision II/10. 
 55  UNEP/CBD/COP/7/21, annex, decision VII/5, annex I. 
 56  UNEP/CBD/COP/8/31, annex I. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 20 
 

agreements and instruments, the management of risks to the marine biodiversity of 
seamounts, cold-water corals, hydrothermal vents and certain other underwater 
features; 

 110. Calls upon States and international organizations to urgently take further 
action to address, in accordance with international law, destructive practices that 
have adverse impacts on marine biodiversity and ecosystems, including seamounts, 
hydrothermal vents and cold-water corals;  

 111. Reaffirms the need for States to continue their efforts to develop and 
facilitate the use of diverse approaches and tools for conserving and managing 
vulnerable marine ecosystems, including the possible establishment of marine 
protected areas, consistent with international law and based on the best scientific 
information available, and the development of representative networks of any such 
marine protected areas by 2012; 

 112. Notes the work of States, relevant intergovernmental organizations and 
bodies, including the Convention on Biological Diversity, in the assessment of 
scientific information on, and compilation of ecological criteria for the 
identification of, marine areas that require protection, in the light of the objective of 
the World Summit on Sustainable Development to develop and facilitate the use of 
diverse approaches and tools such as the establishment of marine protected areas 
consistent with international law and based on scientific information, including 
representative networks by 2012;9 

 113. Acknowledges in this regard the Micronesia Challenge, the Eastern 
Tropical Pacific Seascape project and the Caribbean Challenge, which in particular 
seek to create and link domestic marine protected areas to better facilitate ecosystem 
approaches, and reaffirms the need for further international cooperation in support 
of such initiatives; 

 114. Notes the work of the scientific experts’ workshops on ecological criteria 
and biogeographic classification systems for marine areas in need of protection, held 
in São Miguel Island, Azores, Portugal, from 2 to 4 October 2007,57 on 
biogeographic classification systems in open ocean and deep seabed areas beyond 
national jurisdiction, held in Mexico City from 22 to 24 January 2007, and on 
criteria for identifying ecologically or biologically significant areas beyond national 
jurisdiction, held in Ottawa from 6 to 8 December 2005;58 

 115. Also notes the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment synthesis reports and 
the urgent need to protect the marine biodiversity expressed therein; 

 116. Reiterates its support for the International Coral Reef Initiative, takes 
note of the International Coral Reef Initiative General Meeting, held in Tokyo from 
22 to 24 April 2007, and the upcoming eleventh International Coral Reef 
Symposium, to be held in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, United States of America, in 
July 2008, supports the work under the Jakarta Mandate on Marine and Coastal 
Biological Diversity and the elaborated programme of work on marine and coastal 
biological diversity related to coral reefs, and notes that the International Coral Reef 
Initiative is sponsoring the International Year of the Reef 2008; 

__________________ 

 57  UNEP/CBD/EWS.MPA/1/2, 13 November 2007. 
 58  A/AC.259/16, annex. 



 A/62/L.27
 

21 07-62518 
 

 117. Expresses its concern that coral bleaching has become more frequent and 
severe throughout tropical seas over the last two decades, and highlights the need 
for improved monitoring to predict and identify bleaching events to support and 
strengthen action during such events and improve strategies to support the natural 
resilience of reefs; 

 118. Encourages States to cooperate, directly or through competent 
international bodies, in exchanging information in the event of accidents involving 
vessels on coral reefs and in promoting the development of economic assessment 
techniques for both restoration and non-use values of coral reef systems; 

 119. Emphasizes the need to mainstream sustainable coral reef management 
and integrated watershed management into national development strategies, as well 
as into the activities of relevant United Nations agencies and programmes, 
international financial institutions and the donor community;  

 120. Notes the peer-reviewed scientific studies received by the Division from 
Member States, pursuant to paragraph 107 of resolution 61/222, encourages further 
studies and consideration of the impacts of ocean noise on marine living resources, 
and requests the Division to continue to compile the peer-reviewed scientific studies 
it receives from Member States and, as appropriate, to make them, or references and 
links to them, available on its website; 
 

 XI. Marine science 
 

 121. Calls upon States, individually or in collaboration with each other or 
with relevant international organizations and bodies, to improve understanding and 
knowledge of the oceans and the deep sea, including, in particular, the extent and 
vulnerability of deep sea biodiversity and ecosystems, by increasing their marine 
scientific research activities in accordance with the Convention; 

 122. Notes the contribution of the Census of Marine Life to marine 
biodiversity research, and encourages participation in the initiative;  

 123. Takes note with appreciation of the work of the Advisory Body of 
Experts on the Law of the Sea of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission 
on the development of procedures for the implementation of Parts XIII and XIV of 
the Convention and on the development of a consensual text on the legal framework 
for the collection of oceanographic data within the context of the Convention;  

 124. Stresses the importance of increasing the scientific understanding of the 
oceans/atmosphere interface, including through participation in ocean observing 
programmes and geographic information systems, such as the Global Ocean 
Observing System, a programme of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic 
Commission, particularly considering their role in monitoring and forecasting 
climate change and variability and in the establishment and operation of tsunami 
warning systems; 

 125. Recognizes the significant progress made by the Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic Commission and Member States towards the establishment of 
regional tsunami warning and mitigation systems and the new effort to identify 
common requirements for regional centres, welcomes the continued collaboration of 
the World Meteorological Organization and other United Nations and 
intergovernmental organizations in this effort, and encourages Member States to 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 22 
 

establish and sustain their national warning and mitigation systems, within a global, 
ocean-related multi-hazard approach, as necessary, to reduce loss of life and damage 
to national economies and strengthen the resilience of coastal communities to 
natural disasters; 
 

 XII. Regular process for global reporting and assessment of the state of the marine 
environment, including socio-economic aspects 
 

 126. Recalls that the Ad Hoc Steering Group was established by resolution 
60/30; 

 127. Takes note of the report of the second meeting of the Ad Hoc Steering 
Group for the “assessment of assessments” launched as a preparatory stage towards 
the establishment of the regular process for global reporting and assessment of the 
state of the marine environment, including socio-economic aspects, held in New 
York on 22 June 2007,59 and urges Member States from the African regional group 
to propose the remaining representative to the Chairman of the regional group so 
that the appointment to the Ad Hoc Steering Group of that representative can be 
made by the President of the General Assembly without further delay;  

 128. Also takes note of the overall working approach, the outline for the 
“assessment of assessments” report and the timeline and workplan for the 
“assessment of assessments”, proposed by the Group of Experts established 
pursuant to resolution 60/30, at the first meeting, held in Paris from 29 to 30 March 
2007,60 and endorsed by the Ad Hoc Steering Group at its second meeting, subject 
to the availability of funding;  

 129. Welcomes with appreciation the support of the United Nations 
Environment Programme and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission for 
the “assessment of assessments” in providing secretariat services to the Ad Hoc 
Steering Group and the Group of Experts;  

 130. Invites Member States, the Global Environment Facility and other 
interested parties to contribute financially to the “assessment of assessments”, 
taking into account the workplan and budget approved by the Ad Hoc Steering 
Group, in order to complete the “assessment of assessments” within the specified 
period; 
 

 XIII. Regional cooperation 
 

 131. Notes that there have been a number of initiatives at the regional level, in 
various regions, to further the implementation of the Convention, takes note in that 
context of the Caribbean-focused Assistance Fund, which is intended to facilitate, 
mainly through technical assistance, the voluntary undertaking of maritime 
delimitation negotiations between Caribbean States, takes note once again of the 
Fund for Peace: Peaceful Settlement of Territorial Disputes, established by the 
General Assembly of the Organization of American States in 2000 as a primary 
mechanism, given its broader regional scope, for the prevention and resolution of 
pending territorial, land border and maritime boundary disputes, and calls upon 
States and others in a position to do so to contribute to these funds; 

__________________ 

 59  United Nations Environment Programme, document UNGA 60/30-A of A-AHSG/2. 
 60  GRAME/GOE/1/7. 



 A/62/L.27
 

23 07-62518 
 

 XIV. Open-ended informal consultative process on oceans and the law of the sea 
 

 132. Takes note of the report and annex on the work of the Consultative 
Process at its eighth meetings,5 focused on the topic of marine genetic resources, 
and acknowledges the need to discuss the issue of marine genetic resources in the 
Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group in accordance with paragraph 91 of 
resolution 61/222, taking into consideration the possible elements suggested by the 
co-chairpersons of the Consultative Process; 

 133. Notes the discussion on the relevant legal regime on marine genetic 
resources in areas beyond national jurisdiction in accordance with the Convention, 
and calls upon States to further consider this issue in the context of the mandate of 
the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group, with a view to making further 
progress on this issue;  

 134. Recognizes the abundance and diversity of marine genetic resources and 
their value in terms of benefits, goods and services they can provide;  

 135. Recognizes also the importance of research on marine genetic resources 
for the purpose of enhancing scientific understanding, potential use and application, 
and enhanced management of marine ecosystems;  

 136. Encourages States and international organizations, including through 
bilateral, regional and global cooperation programmes and partnerships, to continue 
in a sustainable and comprehensive way to support, promote and strengthen 
capacity-building activities in particular in developing countries, in the field of 
marine scientific research, in particular, taking into account the need to create 
greater taxonomic capabilities; 

 137. Requests the Secretary-General to convene, in accordance with 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of resolution 54/33, the ninth meeting of the Consultative 
Process, in New York from 23 to 27 June 2008, to provide it with the necessary 
facilities for the performance of its work and to arrange for support to be provided 
by the Division, in cooperation with other relevant parts of the Secretariat, as 
appropriate; 

 138. Recalls the need to strengthen and improve the efficiency of the 
Consultative Process, and encourages States, intergovernmental organizations and 
programmes to provide guidance to the co-chairpersons to this effect, particularly 
before and during the preparatory meeting for the Consultative Process, and in this 
regard notes its decision to further review the effectiveness and utility of the 
Consultative Process at its sixty-third session;61  

 139. Expresses its serious concern regarding the insufficient resources 
available in the voluntary trust fund established by resolution 55/7 for the purpose 
of assisting developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small 
island developing States and landlocked developing States, in attending the 
meetings of the Consultative Process, and urges States to make additional 
contributions to the trust fund;  

 140. Decides that those representatives from developing countries who are 
invited by the co-chairpersons to make presentations during the meetings of the 
Consultative Process shall receive priority consideration in the disbursement of 

__________________ 

 61  Resolution 60/30, para. 99. 



A/62/L.27  
 

07-62518 24 
 

funds from the voluntary trust fund established by resolution 55/7 in order to cover 
the costs of their travel, and shall also be eligible to receive daily subsistence 
allowance subject to the availability of funds after the travel costs of all other 
eligible representatives from those countries mentioned in paragraph 139 above are 
covered;  

 141. Recalls its decision to focus its discussions on the topic “Maritime 
security and safety” at the ninth meeting of the Consultative Process; 
 

 XV. Coordination and cooperation 
 

 142. Encourages States to work closely with and through international 
organizations, funds and programmes, as well as the specialized agencies of the 
United Nations system and relevant international conventions, to identify emerging 
areas of focus for improved coordination and cooperation and how best to address 
these issues; 

 143. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the 
attention of heads of intergovernmental organizations, the specialized agencies, 
funds and programmes of the United Nations engaged in activities relating to ocean 
affairs and the law of the sea, as well as funding institutions, and underlines the 
importance of their constructive and timely input for the report of the Secretary-
General on oceans and the law of the sea and of their participation in relevant 
meetings and processes; 

 144. Welcomes the work done by the secretariats of relevant United Nations 
specialized agencies, programmes, funds and bodies and the secretariats of related 
organizations and conventions to enhance inter-agency coordination and cooperation 
on ocean issues, including through UN-Oceans, the inter-agency coordination 
mechanism on ocean and coastal issues within the United Nations system; 

 145. Encourages continued updates to Member States by UN-Oceans 
regarding its priorities and initiatives, in particular with respect to the proposed 
participation in UN-Oceans; 
 

 XVI. Activities of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea 
 

 146. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the annual 
comprehensive report on oceans and the law of the sea, prepared by the Division, as 
well as for the other activities of the Division, which reflect the high standard of 
assistance provided to Member States by the Division; 

 147. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to carry out the 
responsibilities and functions entrusted to him in the Convention and by the related 
resolutions of the General Assembly, including resolutions 49/28 and 52/26, and to 
ensure the allocation of appropriate resources to the Division for the performance of 
its activities under the approved budget for the Organization; 
 

 XVII. Sixty-third session of the General Assembly 
 

 148. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive report, in its 
current comprehensive format and in accordance with established practice, for the 
consideration of the General Assembly at its sixty-third session, on developments 
and issues relating to ocean affairs and the law of the sea, including the 



 A/62/L.27
 

25 07-62518 
 

implementation of the present resolution, in accordance with resolutions 49/28, 
52/26 and 54/33, and to make the report available at least six weeks in advance of 
the meeting of the Consultative Process; 

 149. Emphasizes the critical role of the annual comprehensive report of the 
Secretary-General, which integrates information on developments relating to the 
implementation of the Convention and the work of the Organization, its specialized 
agencies and other institutions in the field of ocean affairs and the law of the sea at 
the global and regional levels, and as a result constitutes the basis for the annual 
consideration and review of developments relating to ocean affairs and the law of 
the sea by the General Assembly as the global institution having the competence to 
undertake such a review;  

 150. Notes that the report referred to in paragraph 148 above will also be 
presented to States parties pursuant to article 319 of the Convention regarding issues 
of a general nature that have arisen with respect to the Convention; 

 151. Also notes the desire to further improve the efficiency of, and effective 
participation of delegations in, the informal consultations concerning the annual 
General Assembly resolution on oceans and the law of the sea and the resolution on 
sustainable fisheries, and decides to limit the period of the informal consultations on 
both resolutions to a maximum of four weeks in total and to ensure that the 
consultations are scheduled in such a way as to avoid overlap with the period during 
which the Sixth Committee is meeting and that the Division has sufficient time to 
produce the report referred to in paragraph 148 above, and invites States to submit 
text proposals for inclusion in the resolutions to the coordinators of the informal 
consultations at the earliest possible date; 

 152. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session the 
item entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea”. 

 


