






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/63/401

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
18 November 2008 
 
Original: English 

 

08-52103 (E)    261108     
*0852103* 

Sixty-third session 
Agenda item 30 

 
 
 

  Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian 
People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories 
 
 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee) 
 
 

  Rapporteur: Ms. Paula Parviainen (Finland) 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 19 September 2008, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 
its sixty-third session the item entitled “Report of the Special Committee to 
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People 
and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories” and to allocate it to the Special 
Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee). 

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 21st to 24th meetings, from 4 
to 7 November 2008; it held a general debate on the item at its 21st to 23rd meetings 
and took action on the item at its 24th meeting (see A/C.4/63/SR.21-24). 

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following 
documents: 

 (a) Report of the Secretary-General on the occupied Syrian Golan 
(A/63/482); 

 (b) Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Special Committee to 
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People 
and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories (A/63/483); 

 (c) Report of the Secretary-General on the applicability of the Geneva 
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 
12 August 1949, to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, 
and the other occupied Arab territories (A/63/484); 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 2 
 

 (d) Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli practices affecting the human 
rights of the Palestinian people in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East 
Jerusalem (A/63/518); 

 (e) Report of the Secretary-General on Israeli settlements in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the occupied Syrian Golan 
(A/63/519); 

 (f) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the fortieth report of the 
Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of 
the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories (A/63/273). 

4. At the 21st meeting, on 4 November, the Permanent Representative of Sri 
Lanka, in his capacity as Chairman of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of 
the Occupied Territories, introduced the report of that Committee (see 
A/C.4/63/SR.21). 

5. At the same meeting, the representative of the Permanent Observer Mission of 
Palestine to the United Nations made a statement (see A/C.4/63/SR.21). 
 
 

 II. Consideration of proposals 
 
 

 A. Draft resolution A/C.4/63/L.15 
 
 

6. At the 23rd meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of 
Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, the Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, 
Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, Tunisia, the United Arab 
Emirates, Yemen and Palestine, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Work of the 
Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of 
the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories” 
(A/C.4/63/L.15). Subsequently, Cuba, Guinea, Indonesia, Mali, Nigeria, the Sudan 
and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

7. At its 24th meeting, on 7 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.4/63/L.15 by a recorded vote of 87 to 8, with 70 abstentions (see para. 16, draft 
resolution I). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 
 Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, 

Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Cambodia, Chile, China, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, 
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 
Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, 



 A/63/401
 

3 08-52103 
 

Turkmenistan, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, 
Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Australia, Canada, Israel, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 

Nauru, Palau, United States of America. 

Abstaining: 
 Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Bosnia and 

Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte 
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian 
Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, Uruguay. 

 
 

 B. Draft resolution A/C.4/63/L.16 
 
 

8. At the 23rd meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of 
Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, the Comoros, Egypt, Iraq, 
Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, 
Yemen and Palestine, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Applicability of the 
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 
12 August 1949, to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, 
and the other occupied Arab territories” (A/C.4/63/L.16). Subsequently, Cuba, 
Djibouti, Guinea, Indonesia, Mali, the Sudan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic 
of) joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

9. At its 24th meeting, on 7 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.4/63/L.16 by a recorded vote of 161 to 6, with 2 abstentions (see para. 16, draft 
resolution II). The voting was as follows:  

In favour: 
 Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, 

Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, 
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, 
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, 
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 4 
 

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, 
Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian 
Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Israel, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, 

United States of America. 

Abstaining: 
 Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire. 
 
 

 C. Draft resolution A/C.4/63/L.17 
 
 

10. At the 23rd meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of 
Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, the Comoros, Egypt, Iraq, 
Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, 
Yemen and Palestine, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Israeli settlements in 
the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the occupied 
Syrian Golan” (A/C.4/63/L.17). Subsequently, Cuba, Djibouti, Guinea, Indonesia, 
the Sudan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined in sponsoring the draft 
resolution. 

11. At its 24th meeting, on 7 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.4/63/L.17 by a recorded vote of 161 to 6, with 2 abstentions (see para. 16, draft 
resolution III). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 
 Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, 

Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, 
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, 
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, 
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, 



 A/63/401
 

5 08-52103 
 

Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, 
Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian 
Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Israel, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, 

United States of America. 

Abstaining: 
 Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire. 
 
 

 D. Draft resolution A/C.4/63/L.18 
 
 

12. At the 23rd meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of 
Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, the Comoros, Egypt, Iraq, 
Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, 
Yemen and Palestine, introduced a draft resolution entitled “Israeli practices 
affecting the human rights of the Palestinian people in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including East Jerusalem” (A/C.4/63/L.18). Subsequently, Cuba, Djibouti, 
Guinea, Indonesia, Mali, the Sudan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined 
in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

13. At its 24th meeting, on 7 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.4/63/L.18 by a recorded vote of 155 to 8, with 5 abstentions (see para. 16, draft 
resolution IV). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 
 Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, 

Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, 
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, 
France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, 
Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 6 
 

Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Australia, Canada, Israel, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 

Nauru, Palau, United States of America. 

Abstaining: 
 Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, El Salvador, Honduras, Mongolia. 
 
 

 E. Draft resolution A/C.4/63/L.19 
 
 

14. At the 23rd meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of 
Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, the Comoros, Egypt, Iraq, 
Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, 
the United Arab Emirates, Yemen and Palestine, introduced a draft resolution 
entitled “The occupied Syrian Golan” (A/C.4/63/L.19). Subsequently, Cuba, 
Djibouti, Guinea, Indonesia, the Sudan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) 
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

15. At its 24th meeting, on 7 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.4/63/L.19 by a recorded vote of 161 to 1, with 7 abstentions (see para. 16, draft 
resolution V). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 
 Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, 

Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, 
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, 
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, 
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, 
Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 



 A/63/401
 

7 08-52103 
 

Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian 
Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Israel. 

Abstaining: 
 Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 

Nauru, Palau, United States of America. 

 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 8 
 

 III. Recommendations of the Special Political and 
Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
 
 

16. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft 
resolutions: 
 
 

  Draft resolution I 
Work of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other 
Arabs of the Occupied Territories 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, 

 Guided also by international humanitarian law, in particular the Geneva 
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War of 
12 August 1949,1 as well as international standards of human rights, in particular 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights2 and the International Covenants on 
Human Rights,3 

 Recalling its relevant resolutions, including resolutions 2443 (XXIII) of 
19 December 1968 and 62/106 of 17 December 2007, and the relevant resolutions of 
the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council, 

 Recalling also the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 

 Taking into account the advisory opinion rendered on 9 July 2004 by the 
International Court of Justice on the Legal Consequences of the Construction of a 
Wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory,4 and recalling in this regard General 
Assembly resolution ES-10/15 of 20 July 2004, 

 Convinced that occupation itself represents a gross and grave violation of 
human rights, 

 Gravely concerned about the continuing detrimental impact of the events that 
have taken place since 28 September 2000, including the excessive use of force by 
the Israeli occupying forces against Palestinian civilians, resulting in thousands of 
deaths and injuries, the widespread destruction of property and vital infrastructure 
and the internal displacement of civilians, 

 Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of 
the Occupied Territories5 and the relevant reports of the Secretary-General,6 

__________________ 

 1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973. 
 2  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 3  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 4  See A/ES-10/273 and Corr.1; see also Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall in the 

Occupied Palestinian Territory, Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 2004, p. 136. 
 5  See A/63/273. 
 6  A/63/482-484, 518 and 519. 



 A/63/401
 

9 08-52103 
 

 Recalling the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government 
Arrangements of 13 September 19937 and the subsequent implementation 
agreements between the Palestinian and Israeli sides, 

 Expressing the hope that the Israeli occupation will be brought to an early and 
complete end and that therefore the violation of the human rights of the Palestinian 
people will cease, and recalling in this regard its resolution 58/292 of 6 May 2004, 

 1. Commends the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the 
Occupied Territories for its efforts in performing the tasks assigned to it by the 
General Assembly and for its impartiality; 

 2. Reiterates its demand that Israel, the occupying Power, cooperate, in 
accordance with its obligations as a State Member of the United Nations, with the 
Special Committee in implementing its mandate; 

 3. Deplores those policies and practices of Israel that violate the human 
rights of the Palestinian people and other Arabs of the occupied territories, as 
reflected in the report of the Special Committee covering the reporting period;5 

 4. Expresses grave concern about the critical situation in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, since 28 September 2000, as a result 
of unlawful Israeli practices and measures, and especially condemns all illegal 
Israeli settlement activities and the construction of the wall, as well as the excessive 
and indiscriminate use of force against the civilian population, including 
extrajudicial executions; 

 5. Requests the Special Committee, pending complete termination of the 
Israeli occupation, to continue to investigate Israeli policies and practices in the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and other Arab territories 
occupied by Israel since 1967, especially Israeli violations of the Geneva 
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War of 
12 August 1949,1 and to consult, as appropriate, with the International Committee of 
the Red Cross according to its regulations in order to ensure that the welfare and 
human rights of the peoples of the occupied territories are safeguarded and to report 
to the Secretary-General as soon as possible and whenever the need arises 
thereafter; 

 6. Also requests the Special Committee to submit regularly to the Secretary-
General periodic reports on the current situation in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including East Jerusalem; 

 7. Further requests the Special Committee to continue to investigate the 
treatment of the thousands of prisoners and detainees in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including East Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied by Israel 
since 1967; 

 8. Requests the Secretary-General: 

 (a) To provide the Special Committee with all necessary facilities, including 
those required for its visits to the occupied territories, so that it may investigate the 
Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present resolution; 

__________________ 

 7  A/48/486-S/26560, annex. 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 10 
 

 (b) To continue to make available such staff as may be necessary to assist the 
Special Committee in the performance of its tasks; 

 (c) To circulate regularly to Member States the periodic reports mentioned in 
paragraph 6 above; 

 (d) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special Committee 
and of information regarding its activities and findings, by all means available, 
through the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat and, where 
necessary, to reprint those reports of the Special Committee that are no longer 
available; 

 (e) To report to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session on the tasks 
entrusted to him in the present resolution; 

 9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fourth session 
the item entitled “Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the 
Occupied Territories”. 

 



 A/63/401
 

11 08-52103 
 

  Draft resolution II 
Applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection 
of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, to the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and  
the other occupied Arab territories 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its relevant resolutions, including its resolution 62/107 of 
17 December 2007, 

 Bearing in mind the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 

 Recalling the Regulations annexed to the Hague Convention IV of 1907,1 the 
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 
12 August 1949,2 and relevant provisions of customary law, including those codified 
in Additional Protocol I,3 to the four Geneva Conventions,4 

 Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of 
the Occupied Territories5 and the relevant reports of the Secretary-General,6 

 Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising from the 
Charter of the United Nations and other instruments and rules of international law is 
among the basic purposes and principles of the United Nations, 

 Recalling the advisory opinion rendered on 9 July 2004 by the International 
Court of Justice,7 and also recalling General Assembly resolution ES-10/15 of 
20 July 2004, 

 Noting in particular the Court’s reply, including that the Fourth Geneva 
Convention2 is applicable in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East 
Jerusalem, and that Israel is in breach of several of the provisions of the 
Convention, 

 Recalling the Conference of High Contracting Parties to the Fourth Geneva 
Convention on measures to enforce the Convention in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including East Jerusalem, held on 15 July 1999, as well as the Declaration 
adopted by the reconvened Conference on 5 December 2001 and the need for the 
parties to follow up the implementation of the Declaration, 

 Welcoming and encouraging the initiatives by States parties to the Convention, 
both individually and collectively, according to article 1 common to the four Geneva 
Conventions, aimed at ensuring respect for the Convention, 

__________________ 

 1  See Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The Hague Conventions and Declarations of 
1899 and 1907 (New York, Oxford University Press, 1915). 

 2  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973. 
 3  Ibid., vol. 1125, No. 17512. 
 4  Ibid., vol. 75, Nos. 970-973. 
 5  See A/63/273. 
 6  A/63/482-484, 518 and 519. 
 7  See A/ES-10/273 and Corr.1; see also Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall in the 

Occupied Palestinian Territory, Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 2004, p. 136. 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 12 
 

 Stressing that Israel, the occupying Power, should comply strictly with its 
obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, 

 1. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of 
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,2 is applicable to the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied 
by Israel since 1967; 

 2. Demands that Israel accept the de jure applicability of the Convention in 
the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and other Arab 
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, and that it comply scrupulously with the 
provisions of the Convention; 

 3. Calls upon all High Contracting Parties to the Convention, in accordance 
with article 1 common to the four Geneva Conventions4 and as mentioned in the 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 9 July 2004,7 to continue to 
exert all efforts to ensure respect for its provisions by Israel, the occupying Power, 
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and other Arab 
territories occupied by Israel since 1967; 

 4. Reiterates the need for speedy implementation of the relevant 
recommendations contained in the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly at 
its tenth emergency special session, including resolution ES-10/15, with regard to 
ensuring respect by Israel, the occupying Power, for the provisions of the 
Convention; 

 5. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution. 

 



 A/63/401
 

13 08-52103 
 

  Draft resolution III 
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory,  
including East Jerusalem, and the occupied Syrian Golan 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, and affirming 
the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force, 

 Recalling its relevant resolutions, including resolution 62/108 of 17 December 
2007, as well as those resolutions adopted at its tenth emergency special session, 

 Recalling also relevant Security Council resolutions, including resolutions 242 
(1967) of 22 November 1967, 446 (1979) of 22 March 1979, 465 (1980) of 1 March 
1980, 476 (1980) of 30 June 1980, 478 (1980) of 20 August 1980, 497 (1981) of 
17 December 1981 and 904 (1994) of 18 March 1994, 

 Reaffirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,1 to the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and to the occupied Syrian Golan, 

 Considering that the transfer by the occupying Power of parts of its own 
civilian population into the territory it occupies constitutes a breach of the Fourth 
Geneva Convention1 and relevant provisions of customary law, including those 
codified in Additional Protocol I2 to the four Geneva Conventions,3 

 Recalling the advisory opinion rendered on 9 July 2004 by the International 
Court of Justice on the Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall in the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory,4 and recalling also General Assembly resolutions 
ES-10/15 of 20 July 2004 and ES-10/17 of 15 December 2006, 

 Noting that the International Court of Justice concluded that “the Israeli 
settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory (including East Jerusalem) have 
been established in breach of international law”,5 

 Taking note of the recent report of the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights 
Council on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories occupied by 
Israel since 1967,6 

 Recalling the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government 
Arrangements of 13 September 19937 and the subsequent implementation 
agreements between the Palestinian and Israeli sides, 

__________________ 

 1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973. 
 2  Ibid., vol. 1125, No. 17512. 
 3  Ibid., vol. 75, Nos. 970-973. 
 4  See A/ES-10/273 and Corr.1; see also Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall in the 

Occupied Palestinian Territory, Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 2004, p. 136. 
 5  See A/ES-10/273 and Corr.1, advisory opinion, para. 120; see also Legal Consequences of the 

Construction of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 
2004, p. 136. 

 6  See A/63/326. 
 7  A/48/486-S/26560, annex. 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 14 
 

 Recalling also the Quartet road map to a permanent two-State solution to the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict,8 and noting specifically its call for a freeze on all 
settlement activity, 

 Aware that Israeli settlement activities involve, inter alia, the transfer of 
nationals of the occupying Power into the occupied territories, the confiscation of 
land, the exploitation of natural resources and other actions against the Palestinian 
civilian population that are contrary to international law, 

 Bearing in mind the detrimental impact of Israeli settlement policies, decisions 
and activities on efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East, 

 Expressing grave concern about the continuation by Israel, the occupying 
Power, of settlement activities in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, in violation of 
international humanitarian law, relevant United Nations resolutions and the 
agreements reached between the parties, and concerned particularly about Israel’s 
construction and expansion of settlements in and around Occupied East Jerusalem, 
including its so-called E-1 plan that aims to connect its illegal settlements around 
and further isolate Occupied East Jerusalem, and in the Jordan Valley, 

 Expressing grave concern also about the continuing unlawful construction by 
Israel of the wall inside the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including in and around 
East Jerusalem, and expressing its concern in particular about the route of the wall 
in departure from the Armistice Line of 1949, which is causing humanitarian 
hardship and a serious decline of socio-economic conditions for the Palestinian 
people, is fragmenting the territorial contiguity of the Territory, and could prejudge 
future negotiations and make the two-State solution physically impossible to 
implement, 

 Deeply concerned that the wall’s route has been traced in such a way as to 
include the great majority of the Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including East Jerusalem, 

 Deploring settlement activities in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including 
East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan and any activities involving the 
confiscation of land, the disruption of the livelihood of protected persons and the de 
facto annexation of land, 

 Recalling the need to end all acts of violence, including acts of terror, 
provocation, incitement and destruction, 

 Gravely concerned about the rising incidents of violence by illegal armed 
Israeli settlers in the Occupied Palestinian Territory against Palestinian civilians and 
their properties and agricultural lands, 

 Noting the Israeli withdrawal from within the Gaza Strip and parts of the 
northern West Bank and the importance of the dismantlement of the settlements 
therein as a step towards the implementation of the road map, 

 Taking note of the relevant reports of the Secretary-General,9 

 Taking note also of the special meeting of the Security Council convened on 
26 September 2008, 

__________________ 

 8  S/2003/529, annex. 
 9  A/63/482-484, 518 and 519; see also A/63/273. 



 A/63/401
 

15 08-52103 
 

 1. Reaffirms that the Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territory, 
including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan are illegal and an 
obstacle to peace and economic and social development; 

 2. Calls upon Israel to accept the de jure applicability of the Geneva 
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 
12 August 1949,1 to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, 
and to the occupied Syrian Golan and to abide scrupulously by the provisions of the 
Convention, in particular article 49; 

 3. Notes the Israeli withdrawal from within the Gaza Strip and parts of the 
northern West Bank and the importance of the dismantlement of the settlements 
therein as a step towards the implementation of the road map8 and the need for the 
parties to speedily resolve all remaining issues in the Gaza Strip; 

 4. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply strictly with its 
obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, with 
respect to the alteration of the character, status and demographic composition of the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem; 

 5. Reiterates its demand for the immediate and complete cessation of all 
Israeli settlement activities in all of the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including 
East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan, and calls in this regard for the 
full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions, including 
resolution 465 (1980); 

 6. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, comply with its legal 
obligations, as mentioned in the advisory opinion rendered on 9 July 2004 by the 
International Court of Justice;4 

 7. Reiterates its calls for the prevention of all acts of violence and 
harassment by Israeli settlers, especially against Palestinian civilians and their 
properties and agricultural lands, and stresses the need for the implementation of 
Security Council resolution 904 (1994), in which the Council called upon Israel, the 
occupying Power, to continue to take and implement measures, including 
confiscation of arms, aimed at preventing illegal acts of violence by Israeli settlers, 
and called for measures to be taken to guarantee the safety and protection of the 
Palestinian civilians in the occupied territory; 

 8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution. 

 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 16 
 

  Draft resolution IV 
Israeli practices affecting the human rights of the Palestinian 
people in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including  
East Jerusalem 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 

 Recalling also the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights2 and the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child,3 and affirming that these human rights 
instruments must be respected in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East 
Jerusalem, 

 Reaffirming its relevant resolutions, including resolution 62/109 of 
17 December 2007, as well as those adopted at its tenth emergency special session, 

 Recalling the relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights and the 
Human Rights Council, 

 Recalling also the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, and stressing 
the need for their implementation, 

 Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of 
the Occupied Territories4 and the report of the Secretary-General,5 

 Taking note of the recent reports of the Special Rapporteur of the Human 
Rights Council on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories 
occupied since 1967,6 

 Recalling the advisory opinion rendered on 9 July 2004 by the International 
Court of Justice,7 and recalling also General Assembly resolutions ES-10/15 of 
20 July 2004 and ES-10/17 of 15 December 2006, 

 Noting in particular the Court’s reply, including that the construction of the 
wall being built by Israel, the occupying Power, in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including in and around East Jerusalem, and its associated regime are 
contrary to international law, 

 Aware of the responsibility of the international community to promote human 
rights and ensure respect for international law, and recalling in this regard its 
resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, 

 Reaffirming the principle of the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory 
by force, 

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 4  See A/63/273. 
 5  A/63/518. 
 6  A/HRC/7/17; see also A/63/326. 
 7  See A/ES-10/273 and Corr.1; see also Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall in the 

Occupied Palestinian Territory, Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 2004, p. 136. 



 A/63/401
 

17 08-52103 
 

 Reaffirming also the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,8 to the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and other Arab territories occupied 
by Israel since 1967, 

 Reaffirming further the obligation of the States parties to the Fourth Geneva 
Convention8 under articles 146, 147 and 148 with regard to penal sanctions, grave 
breaches and responsibilities of the High Contracting Parties, 

 Reaffirming that all States have the right and the duty to take actions in 
conformity with international law and international humanitarian law to counter 
deadly acts of violence against their civilian population in order to protect the lives 
of their citizens, 

 Stressing the need for full compliance with the Israeli-Palestinian agreements 
reached within the context of the Middle East peace process, including the Sharm 
el-Sheikh understandings, and the implementation of the Quartet road map to a 
permanent two-State solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,9 

 Stressing also the need for the full implementation of the Agreement on 
Movement and Access and the Agreed Principles for the Rafah Crossing, both of 
15 November 2005, to allow for the freedom of movement of the Palestinian civilian 
population within and into and out of the Gaza Strip, 

 Expressing grave concern about the continuing systematic violation of the 
human rights of the Palestinian people by Israel, the occupying Power, including 
that arising from the excessive use of force, the use of collective punishment, the 
reoccupation and closure of areas, the confiscation of land, the establishment and 
expansion of settlements, the construction of a wall in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory in departure from the Armistice Line of 1949, the destruction of property 
and infrastructure, and all other actions by it designed to change the legal status, 
geographical nature and demographic composition of the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including East Jerusalem, 

 Gravely concerned about the military actions that have been carried out since 
28 September 2000 and that have led to thousands of deaths among Palestinian 
civilians, including hundreds of children, and tens of thousands of injuries, 

 Expressing deep concern about the continuing deterioration in the 
humanitarian and security situation in the Gaza Strip, including that resulting from 
the Israeli military actions against civilian areas, and the prolonged closure of 
crossings into and out of the Gaza Strip, as well as from the firing of rockets into 
Israel and the negative impact of the events of June 2007 leading to the unlawful 
takeover of Palestinian Authority institutions in the Gaza Strip, 

 Expressing deep concern also about the vast destruction caused by the Israeli 
occupying forces to Palestinian homes, properties, vital infrastructure, agricultural 
lands and institutions of the Palestinian Authority, and expressing deep concern 
about the short- and long-term detrimental impact of such destruction on the 
socio-economic and humanitarian conditions and human rights of the Palestinian 
civilian population, 

__________________ 

 8  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973. 
 9  S/2003/529, annex. 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 18 
 

 Expressing deep concern further about the Israeli policy of closures, severe 
restrictions, and a permit regime that obstruct the freedom of movement of persons 
and goods, including medical and humanitarian personnel and goods, throughout the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and about the consequent 
violation of the human rights of the Palestinian people and the negative impact on 
their socio-economic situation, which remains that of a dire humanitarian crisis, 
particularly in the Gaza Strip, 

 Concerned in particular about the continued establishment of Israeli 
checkpoints in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the 
transformation of several of these checkpoints into structures akin to permanent 
border crossings inside the Occupied Palestinian Territory, which are severely 
impairing the territorial contiguity of the Territory and undermining efforts and aid 
aimed at rehabilitating and developing the Palestinian economy, adversely affecting 
other aspects of the socio-economic conditions of the Palestinian people, 

 Expressing deep concern that thousands of Palestinians, including hundreds of 
children and women, continue to be held in Israeli prisons or detention centres under 
harsh conditions that impair their well-being, and expressing concern about the ill 
treatment and harassment of any Palestinian prisoners and all reports of torture, 

 Convinced of the need for an international presence to monitor the situation, to 
contribute to ending the violence and protecting the Palestinian civilian population 
and to help the parties implement the agreements reached, and, in this regard, 
recalling the positive contribution of the Temporary International Presence in 
Hebron, 

 Emphasizing the right of all people in the region to the enjoyment of human 
rights as enshrined in the international human rights covenants, 

 1. Reiterates that all measures and actions taken by Israel, the occupying 
Power, in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, in violation 
of the relevant provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of 
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,8 and contrary to the relevant 
resolutions of the Security Council, are illegal and have no validity; 

 2. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, cease all practices and actions 
that violate the human rights of the Palestinian people, including extrajudicial 
executions, and that it respect human rights law and comply with its legal 
obligations in this regard; 

 3. Also demands that Israel, the occupying Power, comply fully with the 
provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention of 19498 and cease immediately all 
measures and actions taken in violation and in breach of the Convention, including 
all of its settlement activities and the construction of the wall in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, including in and around East Jerusalem, which, inter alia, 
gravely and detrimentally impact the human rights of the Palestinian people; 

 4. Condemns all acts of violence, including all acts of terror, provocation, 
incitement and destruction, especially the excessive use of force by the Israeli 
occupying forces against Palestinian civilians, which have caused extensive loss of 
life and vast numbers of injuries, including among children, massive destruction of 
homes, properties, agricultural lands and vital infrastructure, and internal 
displacement of civilians; 



 A/63/401
 

19 08-52103 
 

 5. Expresses grave concern at the firing of rockets against Israeli civilian 
areas resulting in loss of life and injury; 

 6. Notes the Israeli withdrawal in 2005 from within the Gaza Strip and parts 
of the northern West Bank and the dismantlement of the settlements therein as a step 
towards the implementation of the road map;9 

 7. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply strictly with its 
obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, with 
respect to the alteration of the character, status and demographic composition of the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem; 

 8. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, comply with its legal 
obligations under international law, as mentioned in the advisory opinion rendered 
on 9 July 2004 by the International Court of Justice7 and as demanded in resolutions 
ES-10/15 of 20 July 2004 and ES-10/13 of 21 October 2003, and that it immediately 
cease the construction of the wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including in 
and around East Jerusalem, dismantle forthwith the structure situated therein, repeal 
or render ineffective all legislative and regulatory acts relating thereto, and make 
reparation for all damage caused by the construction of the wall, which has gravely 
impacted the human rights and the socio-economic living conditions of the 
Palestinian people; 

 9. Reiterates the need for respect for the unity and territorial contiguity and 
integrity of all of the Occupied Palestinian Territory and for guarantees of the 
freedom of movement of persons and goods within the Palestinian territory, 
including movement into and from East Jerusalem, into and from the Gaza Strip, 
and to and from the outside world; 

 10. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to cease its imposition of 
closures and restrictions on movement, and, in this regard, to implement the 
Agreement on Movement and Access and the Agreed Principles for the Rafah 
Crossing, both of 15 November 2005; 

 11. Urges Member States to continue to provide emergency assistance to the 
Palestinian people to alleviate the financial crisis and the dire socio-economic and 
humanitarian situation, particularly in the Gaza Strip; 

 12. Emphasizes the need to preserve the Palestinian institutions and 
infrastructure for the provision of vital public services to the Palestinian civilian 
population and the promotion of human rights, including civil, political, economic, 
social and cultural rights; 

 13. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution. 

 



A/63/401  
 

08-52103 20 
 

  Draft resolution V 
The occupied Syrian Golan 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of 
the Occupied Territories,1 

 Deeply concerned that the Syrian Golan, occupied since 1967, has been under 
continued Israeli military occupation, 

 Recalling Security Council resolution 497 (1981) of 17 December 1981, 

 Recalling also its previous relevant resolutions, the most recent of which was 
resolution 62/110 of 17 December 2007, 

 Having considered the report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance 
of resolution 62/110,2 

 Recalling its previous relevant resolutions in which, inter alia, it called upon 
Israel to put an end to its occupation of the Arab territories, 

 Reaffirming once more the illegality of the decision of 14 December 1981 
taken by Israel to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the occupied 
Syrian Golan, which has resulted in the effective annexation of that territory, 

 Reaffirming that the acquisition of territory by force is inadmissible under 
international law, including the Charter of the United Nations, 

 Reaffirming also the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,3 to the occupied 
Syrian Golan, 

 Bearing in mind Security Council resolution 237 (1967) of 14 June 1967, 

 Welcoming the convening at Madrid of the Peace Conference on the Middle 
East on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967 
and 338 (1973) of 22 October 1973 aimed at the realization of a just, comprehensive 
and lasting peace, and expressing grave concern about the stalling of the peace 
process on all tracks, 

 1. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply with the relevant 
resolutions on the occupied Syrian Golan, in particular Security Council resolution 
497 (1981), in which the Council, inter alia, decided that the Israeli decision to 
impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the occupied Syrian Golan was 
null and void and without international legal effect and demanded that Israel, the 
occupying Power, rescind forthwith its decision; 

 2. Also calls upon Israel to desist from changing the physical character, 
demographic composition, institutional structure and legal status of the occupied 
Syrian Golan and in particular to desist from the establishment of settlements; 

__________________ 

 1  See A/63/273. 
 2  A/63/482. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973. 



 A/63/401
 

21 08-52103 
 

 3. Determines that all legislative and administrative measures and actions 
taken or to be taken by Israel, the occupying Power, that purport to alter the 
character and legal status of the occupied Syrian Golan are null and void, constitute 
a flagrant violation of international law and of the Geneva Convention relative to 
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,3 and have no 
legal effect; 

 4. Calls upon Israel to desist from imposing Israeli citizenship and Israeli 
identity cards on the Syrian citizens in the occupied Syrian Golan, and from its 
repressive measures against the population of the occupied Syrian Golan; 

 5. Deplores the violations by Israel of the Geneva Convention relative to 
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949; 

 6. Calls once again upon Member States not to recognize any of the 
legislative or administrative measures and actions referred to above; 

 7. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution. 

 


