






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/64/410

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
28 October 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-53998 (E)    091109     
*0953998*   

Sixty-fourth session 
Agenda item 36 

 
 
 

  Economic and other activities which affect the interests of 
the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories  
 
 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee)  
 
 

  Rapporteur: Mr. Khalid Mohammed Osman Ali (Sudan) 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 18 September 2009, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 
its sixty-fourth session the item entitled “Economic and other activities which affect 
the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories” and to allocate it 
to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee). 

2. At its 1st meeting, on 1 October 2009, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a 
general debate on decolonization items (agenda items 35 to 39). The general debate 
on the items was held at the 2nd and 6th meetings, on 5 and 9 October (see 
A/C.4/64/SR.2 and 6). The Committee took action on item 36 at its 7th meeting, on 
12 October (see A/C.4/64/SR.7). 

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the relevant 
chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples.1 

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 5 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, introduced the report of the 
Special Committee. At the same meeting, the representative of Indonesia, in his 
capacity as Chairman of the Special Committee, made a statement in which he gave 

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
corrigendum (A/64/23 and Corr.2), chaps. V and XII. 



A/64/410  
 

09-53998 2 
 

an account of the activities of the Special Committee during 2009 (see 
A/C.4/64/SR.2). 
 
 

 II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in chapter XII 
of the report of the Special Committee 
 
 

5. At its 7th meeting, on 12 October, the Fourth Committee adopted draft 
resolution II, entitled “Economic and other activities which affect the interests of 
the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”, contained in chapter XII of the 
report of the Special Committee,1 by a recorded vote of 146 to 2, with 2 abstentions 
(see para. 7). The voting was as follows:2  

In favour: 
 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 

Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State 
of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina 
Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa 
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, 
Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, 
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, 
Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.  

Against: 
 Israel, United States of America. 

Abstaining: 
 France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 

__________________ 

 2  Subsequently, the delegations of Chile, Guinea, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Pakistan and 
Singapore indicated that they had intended to vote in favour. 



 A/64/410
 

3 09-53998 
 

 III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization 
Committee (Fourth Committee)  
 
 

6. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution:  
 
 

  Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the 
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the item entitled “Economic and other activities which 
affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item,1  

 Recalling General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, as 
well as all other relevant resolutions of the Assembly, including, in particular, 
resolutions 46/181 of 19 December 1991 and 55/146 of 8 December 2000, 

 Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the 
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and 
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their 
administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those Territories 
against abuses, 

 Reaffirming also that any economic or other activity that has a negative impact 
on the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and on the 
exercise of their right to self-determination in conformity with the Charter and 
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) is contrary to the purposes and principles 
of the Charter, 

 Reaffirming further that the natural resources are the heritage of the peoples of 
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, including the indigenous populations, 

 Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location, size and 
economic conditions of each Territory, and bearing in mind the need to promote the 
economic stability, diversification and strengthening of the economy of each 
Territory, 

 Conscious of the particular vulnerability of the small Territories to natural 
disasters and environmental degradation, 

 Conscious also that foreign economic investment, when undertaken in 
collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in 
accordance with their wishes, could make a valid contribution to the socio-economic 
development of the Territories and also to the exercise of their right to self-
determination, 

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
corrigendum (A/64/23 and Corr.2), chap. V. 



A/64/410  
 

09-53998 4 
 

 Concerned about any activities aimed at exploiting the natural and human 
resources of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to the detriment of the interests of 
the inhabitants of those Territories, 

 Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the 
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries 
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government 
of the African Union, the Pacific Islands Forum and the Caribbean Community, 

 1. Reaffirms the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
to self-determination in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and with 
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), containing the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as well as their right to the 
enjoyment of their natural resources and their right to dispose of those resources in 
their best interest; 

 2. Affirms the value of foreign economic investment undertaken in 
collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in 
accordance with their wishes in order to make a valid contribution to the 
socio-economic development of the Territories, especially during times of economic 
and financial crisis; 

 3. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Powers under the 
Charter to promote the political, economic, social and educational advancement of 
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and reaffirms the legitimate rights of their 
peoples over their natural resources; 

 4. Reaffirms its concern about any activities aimed at the exploitation of the 
natural resources that are the heritage of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing 
Territories, including the indigenous populations, in the Caribbean, the Pacific and 
other regions, and of their human resources, to the detriment of their interests, and 
in such a way as to deprive them of their right to dispose of those resources; 

 5. Reaffirms the need to avoid any economic and other activities that 
adversely affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 6. Calls once again upon all Governments that have not yet done so to take, 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolution 
2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other measures in 
respect of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that own 
and operate enterprises in the Non-Self-Governing Territories that are detrimental to 
the interests of the inhabitants of those Territories, in order to put an end to such 
enterprises; 

 7. Calls upon the administering Powers to ensure that the exploitation of the 
marine and other natural resources in the Non-Self-Governing Territories under their 
administration is not in violation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, 
and does not adversely affect the interests of the peoples of those Territories; 

 8. Invites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations system 
to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty of the peoples 
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories over their natural resources is fully respected 
and safeguarded in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations 
on decolonization; 



 A/64/410
 

5 09-53998 
 

 9. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to 
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories to their natural resources and to establish and maintain control 
over the future development of those resources, and requests the administering 
Powers to take all necessary steps to protect the property rights of the peoples of 
those Territories in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations 
on decolonization; 

 10. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no 
discriminatory working conditions prevail in the Territories under their 
administration and to promote in each Territory a fair system of wages applicable to 
all the inhabitants without any discrimination; 

 11. Requests the Secretary-General to continue, through all means at his 
disposal, to inform world public opinion of any activity that affects the exercise of 
the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination 
in conformity with the Charter and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV); 

 12. Appeals to trade unions and non-governmental organizations, as well as 
individuals, to continue their efforts to promote the economic well-being of the 
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and also appeals to the media to 
disseminate information about the developments in this regard; 

 13. Decides to follow the situation in the Non-Self-Governing Territories so 
as to ensure that all economic activities in those Territories are aimed at 
strengthening and diversifying their economies in the interest of their peoples, 
including the indigenous populations, and at promoting the economic and financial 
viability of those Territories; 

 14. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon to 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. 

 


