






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/66/360

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
14 September 2011 
 
Original: English 

 

11-49847 (E)    150911 
*1149847*   

Sixty-sixth session 
Item 3 (b) of the provisional agenda* 
Credentials of representatives to the sixty-sixth session  
of the General Assembly 

 
 
 

  Report of the Credentials Committee 
 
 

  Chairman: Mr. Pablo Antonio Thalassinós (Panama) 
 
 

1. At its 1st plenary meeting, on 13 September 2011, the General Assembly, in 
accordance with rule 28 of its rules of procedure, appointed a Credentials 
Committee for its sixty-sixth session consisting of the following Member States: 
China, Costa Rica, Egypt, Italy, Maldives, Panama, Russian Federation, Senegal and 
United States of America.  

2. The Credentials Committee held its 1st meeting on 14 September 2011. 

3. Mr. Pablo Antonio Thalassinós, Permanent Representative of Panama, was 
unanimously elected Chairman. 

4. The Committee had before it a memorandum by the Secretary-General dated 
13 September 2011, concerning the credentials of representatives of Member States 
to the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. The memorandum indicated that 
credentials issued by the Head of State or Government, or by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, as provided in rule 27 of the rules of procedure of the Assembly, 
had been submitted by the following 17 States: Armenia, Bahamas, Bhutan, 
Cambodia, Chad, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Kyrgyzstan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, 
Liechtenstein, Monaco, New Zealand, Russian Federation, San Marino, Saudi 
Arabia, Sudan and Timor-Leste. 

5. The Assistant Secretary-General for Legal Affairs explained to the Committee 
that the Secretary-General’s memorandum related solely to the Member States that 
had submitted formal credentials of their representatives in accordance with rule 27 
of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. 

 
 

 * A/66/150. 



A/66/360  
 

11-49847 2 
 

6. Regarding the credentials of representatives of other Member States 
participating in the sixty-sixth session whose formal credentials had not yet been 
received at the time of the Committee’s 1st meeting, the Assistant Secretary-General 
for Legal Affairs stated that at a later date the Secretary-General would report to the 
Committee on such credentials. 

7. The Chairman proposed the following draft resolution for adoption by the 
Committee: 

“The Credentials Committee, 

“Having examined the credentials of the representatives to the sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly of the Member States referred to in paragraph 4 
of the report of the Credentials Committee, 

“Accepts the credentials of the representatives of the Member States 
concerned.” 

8. The draft resolution proposed by the Chairman was adopted without a vote. 

9. The Chairman then proposed that the Committee should recommend to the 
General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution entitled “Credentials of 
representatives to the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly” (see para. 11). 
The proposal was adopted without a vote. 

10. In the light of the foregoing, the present report is submitted to the General 
Assembly. 
 
 

  Recommendation of the Credentials Committee 
 
 

11. The Credentials Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption 
of the following draft resolution: 
 
 

  Credentials of representatives to the sixty-sixth session of the 
General Assembly 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the report of the Credentials Committee and the 
recommendation contained therein, 

 Approves the report of the Credentials Committee. 

 


