






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/67/431

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
23 October 2012 
 
Original: English 

 

12-53381 (E)    191112     
*1253381*   

Sixty-seventh session 
Agenda item 60 

 
 
 

  Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 
 
 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee) 
 
 

  Rapporteur: Mr. Zulfi Ismaili (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 21 September 2012, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 
its sixty-seventh session the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples” and to allocate it to 
the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee). 

2. At its 1st meeting, on 4 October 2012, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a 
general debate on decolonization items (agenda items 56 to 60). The general debate 
on those items was held at the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th meetings, on 8, 9, 10, 11 
and 12 October (see A/C.4/67/SR.2, 3, 4, 5 and 6). The Committee took action on 
item 60 at its 7th meeting, on 15 October (see A/C.4/67/SR.7). 

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following 
documents: 

 (a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (A/67/23 and Corr.1, chap. VIII, 
IX, X and XII);  

 (b) Report of the Secretary-General on the question of Western Sahara 
(A/67/366). 

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 8 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, introduced the report of the 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 2 
 

Special Committee. At the same meeting, the representative of Ecuador, in his 
capacity as Chair of the Special Committee, made a statement in which he gave an 
account of the activities of the Special Committee during 2012 (see A/C.4/67/SR.2). 

5. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee granted requests for hearings to 
the petitioners listed in documents A/C.4/67/2, A/C.4/67/3, A/C.4/67/4 and 
A/C.4/67/5, in connection with its consideration of the item.  

6. At its 3rd meeting, on 9 October, on the basis of a decision taken at the 
2nd meeting, the Committee heard a statement on the question of Gibraltar by the 
Chief Minister of Gibraltar, Mr. Fabian Picardo (see A/C.4/67/SR.3). 

7. At the same meeting, on the basis of a decision taken at the 2nd meeting, the 
Committee heard a statement on the question of New Caledonia by the President of 
the Government of New Caledonia, Mr. Harold Martin (see A/C.4/67/SR.3). 

8. Also at its 3rd meeting, on the basis of a decision taken at the 2nd meeting, the 
Committee heard a petitioner on the question of Guam (see A/C.4/67/SR.3 and 
A/C.4/67/2/Rev.1).  

9. At the same meeting, on the basis of a decision taken at the 2nd meeting, the 
Committee heard two petitioners on the question of the Turks and Caicos Islands 
(see A/C.4/67/SR.3 and A/C.4/67/3/Rev.1). 

10. Also at the same meeting, on the basis of a decision taken at the 2nd meeting, 
the Committee heard a petitioner on item 60 (see A/C.4/67/SR.3 and 
A/C.4/67/4/Rev.1). 

11. Also at the 3rd meeting, on the basis of a decision taken at the 2nd meeting, 
the Committee heard 18 petitioners on the question of Western Sahara (see 
A/C.4/67/SR.3 and A/C.4/67/5/Rev.1). 

12. At its 4th meeting, on 10 October, the Committee heard 33 petitioners on the 
question of Western Sahara (see A/C.4/67/SR.4 and A/C.4/67/5/Rev.1). 

13. At its 5th meeting, on 11 October, on the basis of a decision taken at the 
2nd meeting, the Committee heard 10 petitioners on the question of Western Sahara 
(see A/C.4/67/SR.5 and A/C.4/67/5/Rev.1). 
 
 

 II. Consideration of proposals 
 
 

14. At its 6th meeting, on 12 October, the Fourth Committee was informed that the 
draft resolutions and the draft decision submitted under item 60 did not have 
programme budget implications. 
 
 

 A. Question of Western Sahara 
 
 

15. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee had before it a draft 
resolution entitled “Question of Western Sahara” (A/C.4/67/L.4), submitted by the 
Chair of the Committee. 

16. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/67/L.4 
without a vote (see para. 25, draft resolution I). 



 A/67/431
 

3 12-53381 
 

 B. Question of New Caledonia 
 
 

17. At the 2nd meeting, on 8 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, orally revised draft resolution IV, 
entitled “Question of New Caledonia”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the 
Special Committee (A/67/23 and Corr.1) by replacing, in operative paragraph 20, 
the words “from 2 to 9 July 2012” with the words “from 13 to 18 August 2012”. 

18. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution IV, 
entitled “Question of New Caledonia”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the 
Special Committee (A/67/23 and Corr.1), as orally revised, without a vote 
(see para. 25, draft resolution II). 
 
 

 C. Question of Tokelau 
 
 

19. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution V, 
entitled “Question of Tokelau”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the Special 
Committee (A/67/23 and Corr.1), without a vote (see para. 25, draft resolution III). 
 
 

 D. Questions of American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the British 
Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guam, Montserrat, Pitcairn, 
Saint Helena, the Turks and Caicos Islands and the United States 
Virgin Islands  
 
 

20. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution VI, 
entitled “Questions of American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the British Virgin 
Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guam, Montserrat, Pitcairn, Saint Helena, the Turks 
and Caicos Islands and the United States Virgin Islands”, contained in chapter XII of 
the report of the Special Committee (A/67/23 and Corr.1), without a vote 
(see para. 25, draft resolution IV). 
 
 

 E. Dissemination of information on decolonization 
 
 

21. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution VII, 
entitled “Dissemination of information on decolonization”, contained in chapter XII 
of the report of the Special Committee (A/67/23 and Corr.1), by a recorded vote of 
164 to 3, with 1 abstention (see para. 25, draft resolution V). The voting was as 
follows:1  

In favour:  
 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 

Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational 
State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, 

__________________ 

 1  The delegation of Mauritius subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have 
voted in favour. 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 4 
 

Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, 
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, 
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, 
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, 
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall 
Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New 
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sudan, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of 

America. 

Abstaining:  
 France. 
 
 

 F. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 
to Colonial Countries and Peoples 
 
 

22. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee adopted draft resolution VIII, 
entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples”, contained in chapter XII of the report of the Special 
Committee (A/67/23 and Corr.1), by a recorded vote of 164 to 3, with 2 abstentions 
(see para. 25, draft resolution VI). The voting was as follows:2 

In favour: 
 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 

Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, 
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, 

__________________ 

 2  The delegation of Mauritius subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have 
voted in favour. 



 A/67/431
 

5 12-53381 
 

Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, 
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall 
Islands, Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New 
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sudan, 
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, 
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, 
Zimbabwe. 

Against: 
 Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of 
 America. 

Abstaining: 
 Belgium, France. 
 
 

 G. Question of Gibraltar 
 
 

23. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee had before it a draft decision 
entitled “Question of Gibraltar” (A/C.4/67/L.5), submitted by the Chair. 

24. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft decision A/C.4/67/L.5 
without a vote (see para. 26). 

 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 6 
 

 III. Recommendations of the Special Political and Decolonization 
Committee (Fourth Committee) 
 
 

25. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft 
resolutions: 
 
 

  Draft resolution I 
  Question of Western Sahara 

 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered in depth the question of Western Sahara, 

 Reaffirming the inalienable right of all peoples to self-determination and 
independence, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Charter of the 
United Nations and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 
containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and Peoples, 

 Recognizing that all available options for self-determination of the Territories 
are valid as long as they are in accordance with the freely expressed wishes of the 
people concerned and in conformity with the clearly defined principles contained in 
General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960 and 
other resolutions of the Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 66/86 of 9 December 2011, 

 Recalling also all resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council on the question of Western Sahara, 

 Recalling further Security Council resolutions 658 (1990) of 27 June 1990, 
690 (1991) of 29 April 1991, 1359 (2001) of 29 June 2001, 1429 (2002) of 30 July 
2002, 1495 (2003) of 31 July 2003, 1541 (2004) of 29 April 2004, 1570 (2004) of 
28 October 2004, 1598 (2005) of 28 April 2005, 1634 (2005) of 28 October 2005, 
1675 (2006) of 28 April 2006 and 1720 (2006) of 31 October 2006, 

 Underlining the adoption of Security Council resolutions 1754 (2007) on 
30 April 2007, 1783 (2007) on 31 October 2007, 1813 (2008) on 30 April 2008, 
1871 (2009) on 30 April 2009, 1920 (2010) on 30 April 2010, 1979 (2011) on 
27 April 2011 and 2044 (2012) on 24 April 2012, 

 Expressing its satisfaction that the parties met on 18 and 19 June 2007, on 
10 and 11 August 2007, from 7 to 9 January 2008 and from 16 to 18 March 2008 
under the auspices of the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General for Western 
Sahara and in the presence of the neighbouring countries and that they have agreed 
to continue the negotiations, 

 Also expressing its satisfaction at the holding of nine informal meetings 
convened by the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General on 9 and 10 August 2009 
in Dürnstein, Austria, on 10 and 11 February 2010 in Westchester County, New 
York, United States of America, from 7 to 10 November 2010, from 16 to 
18 December 2010 and from 21 to 23 January 2011, all on Long Island, New York, 
from 7 to 9 March 2011 in Mellieha, Malta, from 5 to 7 June 2011 and from 19 to 



 A/67/431
 

7 12-53381 
 

21 July 2011, both on Long Island, and from 11 to 13 March 2012 in Manhasset, 
New York, to prepare for the fifth round of negotiations, 

 Calling upon all the parties and the States of the region to cooperate fully with 
the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy and with each other, 

 Reaffirming the responsibility of the United Nations towards the people of 
Western Sahara, 

 Welcoming, in this regard, the efforts of the Secretary-General and his Personal 
Envoy in search of a mutually acceptable political solution to the dispute, which 
will provide for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara, 

 Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2012,1 

 Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General,2 

 1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;2 

 2. Supports the process of negotiations initiated by Security Council 
resolution 1754 (2007) and further sustained by Council resolutions 1783 (2007), 
1813 (2008), 1871 (2009), 1920 (2010), 1979 (2011) and 2044 (2012) with a view to 
achieving a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution, which will 
provide for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara, and commends 
the efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy for Western 
Sahara in this respect; 

 3. Welcomes the commitment of the parties to continue to show political 
will and work in an atmosphere propitious for dialogue, in order to enter into a more 
intensive phase of negotiations, in good faith and without preconditions, noting 
efforts and developments since 2006, thus ensuring implementation of Security 
Council resolutions 1754 (2007), 1783 (2007), 1813 (2008), 1871 (2009), 1920 
(2010), 1979 (2011) and 2044 (2012) and the success of negotiations; 

 4. Also welcomes the ongoing negotiations between the parties held on 
18 and 19 June 2007, on 10 and 11 August 2007, from 7 to 9 January 2008 and from 
16 to 18 March 2008 in the presence of the neighbouring countries and under the 
auspices of the United Nations; 

 5. Calls upon the parties to cooperate with the International Committee of 
the Red Cross, and calls upon them to abide by their obligations under international 
humanitarian law; 

 6. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to continue to consider the situation in Western Sahara and to 
report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session; 

 7. Invites the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

__________________ 
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
 corrigendum (A/67/23 and Corr.1), chap. VIII. 
2 A/67/366. 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 8 
 

  Draft resolution II  
  Question of New Caledonia 

 
 

 The General Assembly,  

 Having considered the question of New Caledonia, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2012 relating to New 
Caledonia,1 

 Reaffirming the right of peoples to self-determination as enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations,  

 Recalling its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of 
15 December 1960,  

 Noting the importance of the positive measures being pursued in New 
Caledonia by the French authorities, in cooperation with all sectors of the 
population, to promote political, economic and social development in the Territory, 
including measures in the area of environmental protection and action with respect 
to drug abuse and trafficking, in order to provide a framework for its peaceful 
progress to self-determination,  

 Noting also, in this context, the importance of equitable economic and social 
development, as well as continued dialogue among the parties involved in New 
Caledonia in the preparation of the act of self-determination of New Caledonia,  

 Taking note of the report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous 
peoples on the situation of Kanak people in New Caledonia, submitted to the Human 
Rights Council at its eighteenth session, held from 12 to 30 September and on 
21 October 2011,2 following his visit to the Territory in February 2011,  

 Noting with satisfaction the intensification of contacts between New Caledonia 
and neighbouring countries of the South Pacific region,  

 Recalling, in this regard, the conclusions of the eighteenth Melanesian 
Spearhead Group Leaders Summit, held in Suva on 31 March 2011, including the 
recommendations for the annual monitoring and assessment of the Nouméa 
Accord,3  

 Welcoming the conclusion of the letter of exchange between the Department of 
Political Affairs of the Secretariat and the secretariat of the Melanesian Spearhead 
Group on the sharing of information on New Caledonia, 

 1. Invites all the parties involved to continue promoting a framework for the 
peaceful progress of the Territory towards an act of self-determination in which all 
options are open and which would safeguard the rights of all sectors of the 
population, according to the letter and the spirit of the Nouméa Accord,3 which is 

__________________ 
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
 corrigendum (A/67/23 and Corr.1), chap. VIII. 
2 A/HRC/18/35/Add.6, annex. 
3 A/AC.109/2114, annex. 



 A/67/431
 

9 12-53381 
 

based on the principle that it is for the populations of New Caledonia to choose how 
to control their destiny;  

 2. Welcomes the significant developments that have taken place in New 
Caledonia since the signing of the Nouméa Accord on 5 May 1998 by the 
representatives of New Caledonia and the Government of France;  

 3. Urges all the parties involved, in the interest of all the people of New 
Caledonia, to maintain, within the framework of the Nouméa Accord, their dialogue 
in a spirit of harmony, and in this context welcomes again the unanimous agreement, 
reached in Paris on 8 December 2008, on the transfer of powers to New Caledonia 
in 2009;  

 4. Notes that during the meeting on 8 July 2011 of the follow-up committee 
overseeing the progress of the Nouméa Accord, held in the presence of the 
signatories, members of Parliament, Presidents of the provinces and the President of 
the Customary Senate, the parties acknowledged the progress in the transfer of 
powers, particularly those related to civil and commercial law and civil status 
regulations and the civil security sector, which will take effect in 2013 and 2014;  

 5. Also notes that, consequent to the decision taken by the follow-up 
committee on 24 June 2010, the steering committee on the institutional future of 
New Caledonia was established and mandated to prepare the basic issues to be 
decided by referendum, namely, the transfer of sovereign powers, access to full 
international status and the organization of citizenship by nationality; 

 6. Welcomes, in that regard, the five agreements signed in October 2011 by 
the French authorities and the Government of New Caledonia to organize the 
transfer of secondary education, with effect on 1 January 2012;  

 7. Recalls the relevant provisions of the Nouméa Accord aimed at taking 
more broadly into account the Kanak identity in the political and social organization 
of New Caledonia, and notes that, in accordance with the Nouméa Accord, the new 
anthem is used together with the French anthem and that, in 2010, the follow-up 
committee recommended that the French flag and the Kanak flag should fly together 
in New Caledonia;  

 8. Acknowledges those provisions of the Nouméa Accord relating to control 
of immigration and protection of local employment, and notes that unemployment 
remains high among Kanaks and that recruitment of foreign mine workers 
continues; 

 9. Notes the concerns expressed by a group of indigenous people in New 
Caledonia regarding their underrepresentation in the governmental and social 
structures of the Territory;  

 10. Also notes the concerns expressed by representatives of indigenous 
people regarding incessant migratory flows and the impact of mining on the 
environment;  

 11. Takes note of the observations and recommendations contained in the 
report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples,2 made in the 
light of relevant international standards, to assist with ongoing efforts to advance 
the rights of the Kanak people in the context of the implementation of the Nouméa 
Accord and the United Nations-supported decolonization process;  



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 10 
 

 12. Also takes note of the relevant provisions of the Nouméa Accord to the 
effect that New Caledonia may become a member or associate member of certain 
international organizations, such as international organizations in the Pacific region, 
the United Nations, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization and the International Labour Organization, according to their 
regulations;  

 13. Notes the agreement between the signatories to the Nouméa Accord that 
the progress made in the emancipation process shall be brought to the attention of 
the United Nations; 

 14. Recalls the fact that the administering Power invited to New Caledonia, 
at the time the new institutions were established, a mission of information which 
comprised representatives of countries of the Pacific region;  

 15. Notes the continuing strengthening of ties between New Caledonia and 
both the European Union and the European Development Fund in such areas as 
economic and trade cooperation, the environment, climate change and financial 
services;  

 16. Welcomes the actions taken by the administering Power to continue to 
transmit to the Secretary-General information as required under Article 73 e of the 
Charter of the United Nations;  

 17. Also welcomes all measures taken to strengthen and diversify the New 
Caledonian economy in all fields, and encourages further such measures in 
accordance with the spirit of the Matignon and Nouméa Accords;  

 18. Further welcomes the importance attached by the parties to the Matignon 
and Nouméa Accords to greater progress in housing, employment, training, 
education and health care in New Caledonia;  

 19. Notes the financial assistance rendered by the Government of France to 
the Territory in areas such as health, education, payment of public-service salaries 
and funding development schemes; 

 20. Also notes the visit to New Caledonia from 14 to 18 November 2011 of 
the Melanesian Spearhead Group technical mission composed of senior officials, 
pursuant to the recommendations of the Melanesian Spearhead Group Leaders 
Summit of 31 March 2011 for the annual monitoring and assessment of the Nouméa 
Accord, and the second visit, conducted from 13 to 18 August 2012, by the 
Melanesian Spearhead Group high-level ministerial mission; 

 21. Welcomes the continuous participation of the Kanaks through the Front 
de libération nationale kanak socialiste at all the Melanesian Spearhead Group 
Leaders Summit meetings since it became a full member of the Melanesian 
Spearhead Group in 1990; 

 22. Acknowledges the contribution of the Jean-Marie Tjibaou Cultural Centre 
to the protection of the indigenous Kanak culture of New Caledonia; 

 23. Notes the positive initiatives aimed at protecting the natural environment 
of New Caledonia, including the “Zonéco” operation designed to map and evaluate 
marine resources within the economic zone of New Caledonia; 



 A/67/431
 

11 12-53381 
 

 24. Welcomes the cooperation among Australia, France and New Zealand in 
terms of surveillance of fishing zones, in accordance with the wishes expressed by 
France during successive France-Oceania Summits;  

 25. Acknowledges the close links between New Caledonia and the peoples of 
the South Pacific and the positive actions being taken by the French and territorial 
authorities to facilitate the further development of those links, including the 
convention, signed on 26 January 2012, relating to the hosting of New Caledonian 
delegates in the French diplomatic and consular missions in the Pacific region and 
the easing of short-stay visa procedures for countries of the South Pacific;  

 26. Welcomes the participation of New Caledonia at the forty-second meeting 
of the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum, held in Auckland, New Zealand, on 
7 and 8 September 2011, as an associate member, and notes the continuing desire of 
the Territory to accede to full membership in the Forum;  

 27. Recalls the continuing high-level visits to New Caledonia by delegations 
from countries of the Pacific region and high-level visits by delegations from New 
Caledonia to countries members of the Pacific Islands Forum; 

 28. Welcomes the cooperative attitude of other States and Territories in the 
region towards New Caledonia, its economic and political aspirations and its 
increasing participation in regional and international affairs; 

 29. Also welcomes the organization by New Caledonia of the Pacific Games 
from 27 August to 10 September 2011, in which twenty-two countries of the Pacific 
region took part, thereby fostering regional integration;  

 30. Further welcomes the hosting of the fourth Melanesian Spearhead Group 
Melanesian Arts Festival, from 12 to 24 September 2010, organized by the Front de 
libération nationale kanak socialiste, the Kanak communities and New Caledonia;  

 31. Decides to keep under continuous review the process unfolding in New 
Caledonia as a result of the signing of the Nouméa Accord;  

 32. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of the 
question of the Non-Self-Governing Territory of New Caledonia and to report 
thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. 

 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 12 
 

  Draft resolution III  
  Question of Tokelau 

 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the question of Tokelau, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2012 relating to Tokelau,1 

 Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
all resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to Non-Self-Governing 
Territories, in particular General Assembly resolution 66/88 of 9 December 2011,  

 Noting with appreciation the continuing exemplary cooperation of New 
Zealand as the administering Power with regard to the work of the Special 
Committee relating to Tokelau and its readiness to permit access by United Nations 
visiting missions to the Territory, 

 Noting with appreciation also the collaborative contribution to the 
development of Tokelau by New Zealand and the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations 
Development Programme, 

 Noting that, as a small island Territory, Tokelau exemplifies the situation of 
most remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories and that, as a case study pointing to 
successful cooperation for decolonization, Tokelau has wider significance for the 
United Nations as it seeks to complete its work in decolonization, 

 Noting also the status of Tokelau as an associate member of the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 

 Recalling that New Zealand and Tokelau signed on 21 November 2003 a 
document entitled “Joint statement of the principles of partnership”, which sets out 
the rights and responsibilities of the two partners, 

 Bearing in mind the decision of the General Fono at its meeting in November 
2003, following extensive consultations undertaken in all three villages, to explore 
formally with New Zealand the option of self-government in free association and its 
decision in August 2005 to hold in February 2006 a referendum on self-
determination on the basis of a draft constitution for Tokelau and a draft treaty of 
free association with New Zealand, and its subsequent decision to hold a further 
referendum in October 2007, and that the two referendums did not produce the two-
thirds majority of the valid votes cast required by the General Fono to change the 
status of Tokelau from that of a Non-Self-Governing Territory under the 
administration of New Zealand, 

 1. Acknowledges the decision of the General Fono in 2008 that 
consideration of any future act of self-determination by Tokelau will be deferred and 
that New Zealand and Tokelau will devote renewed effort and attention to ensuring 

__________________ 
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
 corrigendum (A/67/23 and Corr.1), chap. X. 



 A/67/431
 

13 12-53381 
 

that essential services and infrastructure on the atolls of Tokelau are enhanced and 
strengthened, thereby ensuring an enhanced quality of life for the people of Tokelau; 

 2. Welcomes the progress made towards the devolution of power to the three 
taupulega (village councils) since 2004;  

 3. Notes that Tokelau and New Zealand remain firmly committed to the 
ongoing development of Tokelau for the long-term benefit of the people of Tokelau, 
with particular emphasis on the further development of facilities on each atoll that 
meet their current requirements;  

 4. Acknowledges the adoption by Tokelau of its National Strategic Plan for 
2010-2015 and that the Joint Commitment for Development between Tokelau and 
New Zealand 2011-2015 will focus on a viable transportation arrangement, 
infrastructure development, human resources capacity and the strengthening of 
governance; 

 5. Also acknowledges the ongoing and consistent commitment of New 
Zealand to meeting the social and economic requirements of the people of Tokelau, 
as well as the support and cooperation of the United Nations Development 
Programme; 

 6. Further acknowledges Tokelau’s need for continued support from the 
international community; 

 7. Recalls with satisfaction the establishment and operation of the Tokelau 
International Trust Fund to support the ongoing needs of Tokelau, and calls upon 
Member States and international and regional agencies to contribute to the Fund and 
thereby lend practical support to Tokelau in overcoming the problems of smallness, 
isolation and lack of resources; 

 8. Welcomes the cooperative attitude of the other States and territories in the 
region towards Tokelau and their support for its economic and political aspirations 
and its increasing participation in regional and international affairs; 

 9. Calls upon the administering Power and United Nations agencies to 
continue to provide assistance to Tokelau as it further develops; 

 10. Welcomes the actions taken by the administering Power to transmit to the 
Secretary-General under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations 
information regarding the political, economic and social situation of Tokelau; 

 11. Also welcomes the commitment of both Tokelau and New Zealand to 
continue to work together in the interests of Tokelau and its people; 

 12. Further welcomes the commitment of Tokelau, with the assistance of the 
administering Power, to the reduction in the use of fossil fuels, with the aim of 
meeting its electricity needs entirely through renewable energy by the end of 2012; 

 13. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine the question of the Non-Self-
Governing Territory of Tokelau and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session.  

 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 14 
 

  Draft resolution IV  
  Questions of American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the British 

Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guam, Montserrat, Pitcairn, 
Saint Helena, the Turks and Caicos Islands and the United States 
Virgin Islands 
 
 

  A 
General 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the questions of the Non-Self-Governing Territories of 
American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman 
Islands, Guam, Montserrat, Pitcairn, Saint Helena, the Turks and Caicos Islands and 
the United States Virgin Islands, hereinafter referred to as “the Territories”, 

 Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2012,1 

 Recalling all resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to those 
Territories, including, in particular, the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly 
at its sixty-sixth session on the individual Territories covered by the present 
resolutions, 

 Recognizing that all available options for self-determination of the Territories 
are valid as long as they are in accordance with the freely expressed wishes of the 
peoples concerned and in conformity with the clearly defined principles contained 
in General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, 1541 (XV) of 
15 December 1960 and other resolutions of the Assembly, 
 Recalling its resolution 1541 (XV), containing the principles that should guide 
Member States in determining whether or not an obligation exists to transmit the 
information called for under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations, 

 Expressing concern that fifty-two years after the adoption of the Declaration 
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,2 there still 
remain a number of Non-Self-Governing Territories, 

 Conscious of the importance of continuing effective implementation of the 
Declaration, taking into account the target set by the United Nations to eradicate 
colonialism by 2020 and the plans of action for the Second3 and Third International 
Decades for the Eradication of Colonialism, 

 Recognizing that the specific characteristics and the aspirations of the peoples 
of the Territories require flexible, practical and innovative approaches to the options 
for self-determination, without any prejudice to territorial size, geographical 
location, size of population or natural resources, 

__________________ 
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
 corrigendum (A/67/23 and Corr.1), chap. IX. 
2 Resolution 1514 (XV). 
3 A/56/61, annex. 



 A/67/431
 

15 12-53381 
 

 Noting the stated position of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland and the stated position of the Government of the 
United States of America on the Non-Self-Governing Territories under their 
administration, 

 Noting also the constitutional developments in some Non-Self-Governing 
Territories affecting the internal structure of governance about which the Special 
Committee has received information, 

 Convinced that the wishes and aspirations of the peoples of the Territories 
should continue to guide the development of their future political status and that 
referendums, free and fair elections and other forms of popular consultation play an 
important role in ascertaining the wishes and aspirations of the people, 

 Convinced also that any negotiations to determine the status of a Territory 
must take place with the active involvement and participation of the people of that 
Territory, under the auspices of the United Nations, on a case-by-case basis, and that 
the views of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in respect of their 
right to self-determination should be ascertained, 

 Noting that a number of Non-Self-Governing Territories have expressed 
concern at the procedure followed by some administering Powers, contrary to the 
wishes of the Territories themselves, of amending or enacting legislation for 
application to the Territories, either through orders in council, in order to apply to 
the Territories the international treaty obligations of the administering Power, or 
through the unilateral application of laws and regulations, 

 Aware of the importance of the international financial services and tourism 
sectors for the economies of some of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, 

 Noting the continued cooperation of the Non-Self-Governing Territories at the 
local and regional levels, including participation in the work of regional 
organizations, 

 Mindful that United Nations visiting and special missions provide an effective 
means of ascertaining the situation in the Territories, that some Territories have not 
received a United Nations visiting mission for a long time and that no visiting 
missions have been sent to some of the Territories, and considering the possibility of 
sending further visiting missions to the Territories at an appropriate time, in 
consultation with the relevant administering Powers and in accordance with the 
relevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations on decolonization, 

 Mindful also that, in order for the Special Committee to enhance its 
understanding of the political status of the peoples of the Territories and to fulfil its 
mandate effectively, it is important for it to be apprised by the relevant 
administering Powers and to receive information from other appropriate sources, 
including the representatives of the Territories, concerning the wishes and 
aspirations of the peoples of the Territories, 

 Acknowledging the regular transmission by the administering Powers to the 
Secretary-General of information called for under Article 73 e of the Charter, 

 Aware of the importance both to the Territories and to the Special Committee 
of the participation of elected and appointed representatives of the Territories in the 
work of the Committee, 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 16 
 

 Recognizing the need for the Special Committee to ensure that the appropriate 
bodies of the United Nations actively pursue a public awareness campaign aimed at 
assisting the peoples of the Territories in gaining a better understanding of the 
options for self-determination, 

 Mindful, in that connection, that the holding of regional seminars in the 
Caribbean and Pacific regions and at Headquarters, with the active participation of 
representatives of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, provides a helpful means for 
the Special Committee to fulfil its mandate, and that the regional nature of the 
seminars, which alternate between the Caribbean and the Pacific, is a crucial 
element in the context of a United Nations programme for ascertaining the political 
status of the Territories, 

 Noting the stated positions of the representatives of the Non-Self-Governing 
Territories before the Special Committee and at its regional seminars, 

 Mindful that the 2012 Pacific regional seminar was held in Quito from 30 May 
to 1 June 2012,  

 Conscious of the particular vulnerability of the Territories to natural disasters 
and environmental degradation, and in that connection bearing in mind the 
applicability to the Territories of the programmes of action or outcome documents 
of all United Nations world conferences and special sessions of the General 
Assembly in the economic and social spheres, 

 Noting with appreciation the contribution to the development of some 
Territories by the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations 
system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, the Economic 
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean and the Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and the Pacific, as well as regional institutions such as the 
Caribbean Development Bank, the Caribbean Community, the Organization of 
Eastern Caribbean States, the Pacific Islands Forum and the agencies of the Council 
of Regional Organizations in the Pacific, 

 Noting the statement made by the representative of the Economic Commission 
for Latin America and the Caribbean at the Caribbean regional seminar held in 
Kingstown from 31 May to 2 June 2011 that all six Caribbean Non-Self-Governing 
Territories are active associate members of the Commission, 

 Aware that the Human Rights Committee, as part of its mandate under the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,4 reviews the status of the self-
determination process, including in small island Territories under examination by 
the Special Committee, 

 Recalling the ongoing efforts of the Special Committee in carrying out a 
critical review of its work with the aim of making appropriate and constructive 
recommendations and decisions to attain its objectives in accordance with its 
mandate, 

 Recognizing that the annual working papers prepared by the Secretariat on 
developments in each of the small Territories,5 as well as the substantive 
documentation and information furnished by experts, scholars, non-governmental 

__________________ 
4 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
5 A/AC.109/2012/2-11 and 13. 



 A/67/431
 

17 12-53381 
 

organizations and other sources, have provided important inputs to update the 
present resolutions, 

 Recalling the report of the Secretary-General on the Second International 
Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism,6 

 1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing 
Territories to self-determination, in conformity with the Charter of the United 
Nations and with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples; 

 2. Also reaffirms that, in the process of decolonization, there is no 
alternative to the principle of self-determination, which is also a fundamental human 
right, as recognized under the relevant human rights conventions; 

 3. Further reaffirms that it is ultimately for the peoples of the Territories 
themselves to determine freely their future political status in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Charter, the Declaration and the relevant resolutions of 
the General Assembly, and in that connection reiterates its long-standing call for the 
administering Powers, in cooperation with the territorial Governments and 
appropriate bodies of the United Nations system, to develop political education 
programmes for the Territories in order to foster an awareness among the people of 
their right to self-determination in conformity with the legitimate political status 
options, based on the principles clearly defined in Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) 
and other relevant resolutions and decisions; 

 4. Stresses the importance of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples being apprised of the views and wishes of the 
peoples of the Territories and enhancing its understanding of their conditions, 
including the nature and scope of the existing political and constitutional 
arrangements between the Non-Self-Governing Territories and their respective 
administering Powers; 

 5. Requests the administering Powers to continue to transmit regularly to 
the Secretary-General information called for under Article 73 e of the Charter; 

 6. Calls upon the administering Powers to participate in and cooperate fully 
with the work of the Special Committee in order to implement the provisions of 
Article 73 e of the Charter and the Declaration and in order to advise the Special 
Committee on the implementation of the provisions under Article 73 b of the 
Charter on efforts to promote self-government in the Territories, and encourages the 
administering Powers to facilitate visiting and special missions to the Territories; 

 7. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Powers under the 
Charter to promote the economic and social development and to preserve the 
cultural identity of the Territories, and, as a priority, to mitigate the effects of the 
current global financial crisis where possible, in consultation with the territorial 
Governments concerned, towards the strengthening and diversification of their 
respective economies; 

 8. Requests the Territories and the administering Powers to take all 
measures necessary to protect and conserve the environment of the Territories 

__________________ 
6 A/65/330 and Add.1. 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 18 
 

against any degradation, and once again requests the specialized agencies concerned 
to continue to monitor environmental conditions in the Territories and to provide 
assistance to those Territories, consistent with their prevailing rules of procedure; 

 9. Welcomes the participation of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in 
regional activities, including the work of regional organizations; 

 10. Stresses the importance of implementing the plans of action for the 
Second3 and Third International Decades for the Eradication of Colonialism, in 
particular by expediting the application of the work programme for the 
decolonization of each Non-Self-Governing Territory, on a case-by-case basis, as 
well as by ensuring that periodic analyses are undertaken of the progress and extent 
of the implementation of the Declaration in each Territory, and that the working 
papers prepared by the Secretariat on each Territory should fully reflect 
developments in those Territories; 

 11. Urges Member States to contribute to the efforts of the United Nations to 
usher in a world free of colonialism within the context of the International Decades 
for the Eradication of Colonialism, and calls upon them to continue to give their full 
support to the Special Committee in its endeavours towards that noble goal; 

 12. Stresses the importance of the various constitutional exercises in the 
respective Territories administered by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland and the United States of America, and led by the territorial 
Governments, designed to address internal constitutional structures within the 
present territorial arrangements, and decides to follow closely the developments 
concerning the future political status of those Territories;  

 13. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to report to the General 
Assembly on a regular basis on the implementation of decolonization resolutions 
adopted since the declaration of the Third International Decade for the Eradication 
of Colonialism; 

 14. Reiterates its request that the Human Rights Committee collaborate with 
the Special Committee, within the framework of its mandate on the right to 
self-determination as contained in the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights,4 with the aim of exchanging information, given that the Human Rights 
Committee is mandated to review the situation, including political and constitutional 
developments, in many of the Non-Self-Governing Territories that are within the 
purview of the Special Committee; 

 15. Requests the Special Committee to continue to collaborate with the 
Economic and Social Council and its relevant subsidiary intergovernmental bodies, 
within the framework of their respective mandates, with the aim of exchanging 
information on developments in those Non-Self-Governing Territories which are 
reviewed by those bodies; 

 16. Also requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question 
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to report thereon to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session and on the implementation of the present 
resolution. 
 
 



 A/67/431
 

19 12-53381 
 

  B 
Individual territories 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Referring to resolution A above,  
 

  I 
American Samoa 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on American 
Samoa7 and other relevant information,  

 Noting the statement made by the representative of the Governor of American 
Samoa at the Pacific regional seminar held in Quito from 30 May to 1 June 2012 
that the Territory’s position that it should be removed from the United Nations list 
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories continued to hold, that it was time to make 
political and economic progress while respecting the concerns of the administering 
Power and the United Nations, and that there was a need for a more structured 
approach to determine the will of the people with a detailed workplan on how best 
to gauge the will of the people on political status,  

 Aware that, under United States law, the Secretary of the Interior has 
administrative jurisdiction over American Samoa,8 

 Recalling the position of the administering Power and the statements made by 
representatives of American Samoa at regional seminars, including at the 2011 
Caribbean regional seminar, inviting the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples to send a visiting mission to the Territory,  

 Aware of the work of the Future Political Status Study Commission, completed in 
2006, the release of its report, with recommendations, in January 2007 and the 
creation of the American Samoa Constitutional Review Committee in the Territory, 
as well as the holding in June 2010 of American Samoa’s fourth Constitutional 
Convention,  

 Noting, in that regard, the statement made by the representative of the 
Governor of American Samoa at the 2012 Pacific regional seminar and previous 
policy papers presented to the Special Committee stating that, against a backdrop of 
a decades-long popular preference for integration with the United States of America, 
the Territory wished to move forward on political status, local autonomy and self-
governance issues, as well as remarks made by the Governor and the United States 
Congressman representing American Samoa, in 2012, on the issue of reviewing the 
relationship of the Territory with the United States and looking at options to become 
more independent, including a compact of free association agreement,  

 Acknowledging the indication by the territorial Government, including at the 
2012 Pacific regional seminar, that the effects of certain federal laws on the 
economy of the Territory give serious cause for concern,  

__________________ 
7 A/AC.109/2012/11.  
8 United States Congress, 1929 (48 U.S.C. Sec. 1661, 45 Stat. 1253), and Secretary’s Order 
 2657, Department of the Interior, United States of America, 1951, as amended.  



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 20 
 

 Aware that American Samoa continues to be the only United States Territory to 
receive financial assistance from the administering Power for the operations of the 
territorial Government,  

 1. Welcomes the work of the territorial Government with respect to moving 
forward on political status, local autonomy and self-governance issues with a view 
to making political and economic progress;  

 2. Expresses once again its appreciation for the invitation extended in 2011 
by the Governor of American Samoa to the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples to send a visiting mission to the Territory, calls upon 
the administering Power to facilitate such a mission if the territorial Government so 
desires, and requests the Chair of the Special Committee to take all the steps 
necessary to that end;  

 3. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning a public awareness programme, consistent with Article 73 b of the 
Charter of the United Nations, and in that regard calls upon the relevant United 
Nations organizations to provide assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 4. Calls upon the administering Power to assist the territorial Government 
in the diversification and sustainability of the economy of the Territory and to 
address employment and cost-of-living issues;  
 

  II 
Anguilla 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Anguilla9 and 
other relevant information,  

 Recalling the holding of the 2003 Caribbean regional seminar in Anguilla, 
hosted by the territorial Government and made possible by the administering Power, 
the first time that the seminar had been held in a Non-Self-Governing Territory,  

 Recalling also the statement made by the representative of Anguilla at the 
Pacific regional seminar held in Quito from 30 May to 1 June 2012 that the people 
of the Territory are concerned that they are being denied the full range of 
decolonization options while the territorial Government seeks a comprehensive 
overhaul of the current Constitution, in particular a serious reduction in the powers 
of the Governor under a drafting exercise that began in 2011,  

 Aware of the follow-up meeting, held after the 2012 Pacific regional seminar, 
between the Chair of the Special Committee and the Chief Minister of Anguilla, 
who reiterated the urgent need for a visiting mission,  

 Noting the internal constitutional review process resumed by the territorial 
Government in 2006, the work of the Constitutional and Electoral Reform 
Commission, which prepared its report in August 2006, the holding of public and 
other consultative meetings in 2007 on proposed constitutional amendments to be 
presented to the administering Power and the decisions taken in 2008 and 2011 to 
set up a drafting team to prepare a new constitution and present it for public 
consultation in the Territory,  

__________________ 
9 A/AC.109/2012/2.  



 A/67/431
 

21 12-53381 
 

 Aware of certain difficulties and tensions in the relations between the 
territorial Government and the administering Power regarding budgetary and 
economic matters,  

 Noting the participation of the Territory as a member in the Caribbean 
Overseas Countries and Territories Council and an associate member in the 
Caribbean Community, the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States and the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean,  

 Aware of the willingness expressed by the Organization of Eastern Caribbean 
States and the Caribbean Community to assist in the resolution of difficulties being 
experienced by the territorial Government in respect of its relations with the 
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,  

 1. Welcomes the preparations made for a new constitution, and urges that 
constitutional discussions with the administering Power, including public 
consultations, be concluded as soon as possible;  

 2. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory in its current 
efforts with regard to advancing the internal constitutional review exercise, if 
requested;  

 3. Notes the expression of grave concern by the Caribbean Community at 
the tension between the administering Power and the territorial Government and the 
deterioration in the Territory’s governance arrangements;  

 4. Stresses the importance of the previously expressed desire of the 
territorial Government for a visiting mission by the Special Committee, calls upon 
the administering Power to facilitate such a mission, if the territorial Government so 
desires, and requests the Chair of the Special Committee to take all the necessary 
steps to that end;  

 5. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public consultative outreach efforts consistent with Article 73 b of 
the Charter, and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations 
to provide assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 6. Calls upon the administering Power to assist the territorial Government 
in strengthening its commitments in the economic domain, including budgetary 
matters, with regional support as needed and appropriate;  

 7. Welcomes the active participation of the Territory in the work of the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean;  
 

  III 
Bermuda 

 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Bermuda10 
and other relevant information,  

 Recalling the statement made by the representative of Bermuda at the Pacific 
regional seminar held in Quito from 30 May to 1 June 2012 that the circumstances 
of the Territory with respect to the issue of independence are unique and that its 

__________________ 
10 A/AC.109/2012/4.  



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 22 
 

dream of independence persists, albeit temporarily deferred, as the pursuit of 
independence is not a current top priority for the people of Bermuda,  

 Conscious of the different viewpoints of the political parties on the future 
status of the Territory, and noting the results of successive surveys by local media, 
according to which a majority of respondents did not wish to sever ties with the 
United Kingdom, the administering Power, and a minority was in favour of 
independence,  

 Recalling the dispatch of the United Nations special mission to Bermuda in 
2005, at the request of the territorial Government and with the concurrence of the 
administering Power, which provided information to the people of the Territory on 
the role of the United Nations in the process of self-determination, on the legitimate 
political status options as clearly defined in General Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) 
of 15 December 1960 and on the experiences of other small States that have 
achieved a full measure of self-government,  

 1. Stresses the importance of the 2005 report of the Bermuda Independence 
Commission, which provides a thorough examination of the facts surrounding 
independence, and continues to regret that the plans for public meetings and the 
presentation of a Green Paper to the House of Assembly followed by a White Paper 
outlining the policy proposals for an independent Bermuda have so far not 
materialized;  

 2. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public educational outreach efforts, consistent with Article 73 b of 
the Charter, and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations 
to provide assistance to the Territory, if requested;  
 

  IV 
British Virgin Islands 

 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the British 
Virgin Islands11 and other relevant information,  

 Noting the statement made by the representative of the British Virgin Islands at 
the Pacific regional seminar held in Quito from 30 May to 1 June 2012 that the 
interim position of the Territory was to maintain its current relationship with the 
administering Power, built on mutual respect and a mature partnership, as the 
Territory continues to grow and generations of British Virgin Islanders attain higher 
levels of education,  

 Recalling the view expressed in the statement made by the representative of 
the British Virgin Islands at the 2011 Caribbean regional seminar that there was 
scope for further constitutional review with respect to the practical and effective 
implementation of the provisions of the 2007 Constitution in the Territory,  

 Aware of the negative impact of the global economic slowdown on the growth of 
the financial and tourism services sectors of the Territory, which was less severe in 
2011,  

__________________ 
11 A/AC.109/2012/6.  



 A/67/431
 

23 12-53381 
 

 Cognizant of the potential usefulness of regional ties for the development of a 
small island Territory and of the Territory’s membership in the Caribbean Overseas 
Countries and Territories Council,  

 1. Recalls the Constitution of the British Virgin Islands, which took effect in 
2007, and stresses the importance of continued discussions on constitutional matters, 
to accord greater responsibility to the territorial Government for the effective 
implementation of the Constitution and increased levels of education relating to 
constitutional matters;  

 2. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public outreach efforts, consistent with Article 73 b of the Charter, 
and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations to provide 
assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 3. Welcomes the efforts made by the Territory to strengthen its financial 
services and tourism sectors;  

 4. Also welcomes the active participation of the Territory in the work of the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean;  

 5. Further welcomes the holding, for the first time at the level of heads of 
territorial Government, on 12 May 2011, of the meeting of the Inter-Virgin Islands 
Council between the Territory and the United States Virgin Islands;  
 

  V 
Cayman Islands 

 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the Cayman 
Islands12 and other relevant information,  

 Recalling the statement made by the representative of the territorial Government 
at the Pacific regional seminar held in Nouméa from 18 to 20 May 2010,  

 Aware of the work, in accordance with the 2009 Constitution, of the new 
Constitutional Commission, which serves as an advisory body on constitutional 
matters,  

 Conscious of the work of the Cayman Islands Review Committee established 
by the Premier in 2011 to comment on the relationship between the United Kingdom 
and the Cayman Islands,  

 Acknowledging that, in spite of the global economic downturn and 
unemployment issues, the financial services and tourism industries of the Territory 
reportedly rebounded in 2011 and the openness of the Government to partnership 
would facilitate economic activity in the private sector,  

 Cognizant of the potential usefulness of regional ties for the development of a 
small island Territory and of the Territory’s membership in the Caribbean Overseas 
Countries and Territories Council,  

 1. Welcomes the desire, reflected in the Cayman Islands Review Committee 
report of 2011, to enhance the relationship between the Territory and the administering 
Power in mutually beneficial ways, with a view to creating more local autonomy, 

__________________ 
12 A/AC.109/2012/7.  



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 24 
 

and stresses the importance of the work of the Constitutional Commission, including 
on human rights education;  

 2. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public awareness outreach efforts, consistent with Article 73 b of 
the Charter, and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations 
to provide assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 3. Welcomes the active participation of the Territory in the work of the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean;  

 4. Also welcomes the efforts made by the territorial Government to 
implement financial sector management policies, medical and sports tourism 
initiatives and unemployment alleviation programmes in various economic sectors, 
including agriculture and the private sector;  
 

  VI 
Guam 

 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Guam13 and 
other relevant information,  

 Noting the statement made by the representative of the Governor of Guam at 
the Pacific regional seminar held in Quito from 30 May to 1 June 2012 that the 
colonial status of the Territory has resulted in a situation where the survival of the 
Chamorro people as a people in their native land is threatened and that the work of 
the Guam Commission on Decolonization for the Implementation and Exercise of 
Chamorro Self-Determination in 2011 was centred on setting a date for the 
plebiscite on Chamorro self-determination and on identifying the resources to fund 
an education campaign to inform the community of the political status issue,  

 Cognizant of the efforts made by the Guam Commission on Decolonization to 
populate the decolonization registry, as required by public law, and to enhance the 
ability to expediently register those who have not yet been registered,  

 Aware that, under United States law, the relations between the territorial 
Government and the federal Government in all matters that are not the programme 
responsibility of another federal department or agency are under the general 
administrative supervision of the Secretary of the Interior,14  

 Recalling that, in a referendum held in 1987, the registered and eligible voters 
of Guam endorsed a draft Guam Commonwealth Act that would establish a new 
framework for relations between the Territory and the administering Power, providing 
for a greater measure of internal self-government for Guam and recognition of the 
right of the Chamorro people of Guam to self-determination for the Territory,  

 Recalling also the requests by the elected representatives and non-governmental 
organizations of the Territory, including at the 2012 Pacific regional seminar, that 
Guam not be removed from the list of the Non-Self-Governing Territories with 
which the Special Committee is concerned, pending the self-determination of the 
Chamorro people and taking into account their legitimate rights and interests,  

__________________ 
13 A/AC.109/2012/13.  
14 United States Congress, Organic Act of Guam, 1950, as amended.  



 A/67/431
 

25 12-53381 
 

 Aware that negotiations between the administering Power and the territorial 
Government on the draft Guam Commonwealth Act ended in 1997 and that Guam has 
subsequently established a non-binding plebiscite process for a self-determination 
vote by the eligible Chamorro voters,  

 Cognizant of the importance of the administering Power continuing to 
implement its programme of transferring surplus federal land to the Government of 
Guam,  

 Noting that the people of the Territory have called for reform in the 
programme of the administering Power with respect to the thorough, unconditional 
and expeditious transfer of land property to the people of Guam,  

 Aware of the deep concerns expressed by civil society and others, including at 
meetings of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
of the General Assembly and at the regional seminars, regarding the potential social, 
cultural, economic and environmental impacts of the planned transfer of additional 
military personnel of the administering Power to the Territory,  

 Conscious that immigration into Guam has resulted in the indigenous 
Chamorros becoming a minority in their homeland, 

 1. Welcomes the convening of the Guam Commission on Decolonization for 
the Implementation and Exercise of Chamorro Self-Determination in 2011 and its 
work on a self-determination vote;  

 2. Calls once again upon the administering Power to take into consideration 
the expressed will of the Chamorro people as supported by Guam voters in the 
referendum of 1987 and as subsequently provided for in Guam law regarding 
Chamorro self-determination efforts, encourages the administering Power and the 
territorial Government to enter into negotiations on the matter, and stresses the need 
for continued close monitoring of the overall situation in the Territory;  

 3. Requests the administering Power, in cooperation with the territorial 
Government, to continue to transfer land to the original landowners of the Territory, 
to continue to recognize and to respect the political rights and the cultural and ethnic 
identity of the Chamorro people of Guam and to take all measures necessary to 
address the concerns of the territorial Government with regard to the question of 
immigration;  

 4. Also requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating 
public outreach efforts, including through the funding of the public education 
campaign, consistent with Article 73 b of the Charter, and in that regard calls upon 
the relevant United Nations organizations to provide assistance to the Territory, if 
requested, and welcomes the recent outreach work by the territorial Government, 
including the convening in 2011 of a Chamorro forum;  

 5. Further requests the administering Power to cooperate in establishing 
programmes for the sustainable development of the economic activities and 
enterprises of the Territory, noting the special role of the Chamorro people in the 
development of Guam;  
 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 26 
 

  VII 
Montserrat 

 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Montserrat15 
and other relevant information,  

 Recalling the statement made by the Premier of Montserrat at the Pacific 
regional seminar held in Quito from 30 May to 1 June 2012 that the current 
relationship with the administering Power was one made by free choice and that the 
Territory should be removed from the list of the Non-Self-Governing Territories,  

 Recalling also the statements made by the members of the Special Committee 
present at the 2012 Pacific regional seminar and the clarification made by the 
Secretariat regarding United Nations procedures in that regard,  

 Taking note of the communication addressed to the Chair of the Special 
Committee by the opposition leader of Montserrat expressing concern that the 
Premier had no prior discussion with the legislature of Montserrat over the content 
of his statement before requesting the Special Committee to remove the Territory 
from the list of the Non-Self-Governing Territories,  

 Noting the approval of a new Constitution in 2010 and the work of the 
territorial Government to update the relevant parts of the legislation of the Territory 
so that the Constitution could enter into force in September 2011,  

 Aware that Montserrat continues to receive budgetary aid from the 
administering Power for the operation of the territorial Government,  

 Recalling the statements made by participants at the 2012 Pacific regional 
seminar encouraging the administering Power to commit sufficient resources to 
meet the special needs of the Territory,  

 Noting with concern the continuing consequences of the 1995 volcanic 
eruption, which led to the evacuation of three quarters of the population of the 
Territory to safe areas of the island and to areas outside the Territory, which 
continues to have enduring consequences for the economy of the island,  

 Acknowledging the continuing assistance provided to the Territory by States 
members of the Caribbean Community, in particular Antigua and Barbuda, which 
has offered safe refuge and access to educational and health facilities, as well as 
employment for thousands who have left the Territory,  

 Noting the continuing efforts of the administering Power and the territorial 
Government to deal with the consequences of the volcanic eruption,  

 Cognizant of the potential usefulness of regional ties for the development of a 
small island Territory and of the Territory’s membership in the Caribbean Overseas 
Countries and Territories Council,  

 1. Welcomes the approval of a new Constitution for the Territory, which 
entered into force in 2011, and the work of the territorial Government with respect 
to moving forward to consolidate the gains provided for in the Constitution;  

 2. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public outreach efforts, consistent with Article 73 b of the Charter, 

__________________ 
15 A/AC.109/2012/10.  



 A/67/431
 

27 12-53381 
 

and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations to provide 
assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 3. Welcomes the steps towards accession of the Territory, in 2012, to the 
economic union treaty of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States and its active 
participation in the work of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the 
Caribbean; 

 4. Calls upon the administering Power, the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system, as well as regional and other 
organizations, to continue to provide assistance to the Territory in alleviating the 
consequences of the volcanic eruption;  
 

  VIII 
Pitcairn 

 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Pitcairn16 and 
other relevant information,  

 Taking into account the unique character of Pitcairn in terms of population, 
area and access,  

 Aware that the administering Power and the territorial Government have 
implemented a new governance structure to strengthen administrative capacity in 
the Territory, based on consultations with the people of the Territory, and that 
Pitcairn continues to receive budgetary aid from the administering Power for the 
operation of the territorial Government,  

 Noting that the administering Power and the Pitcairn Government are currently 
working on a five-year strategic development plan for the island,  

 1. Welcomes all efforts by the administering Power and the territorial 
Government that would further devolve operational responsibilities to the Territory, 
with a view to gradually expanding self-government, including through training of 
local personnel;  

 2. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public outreach efforts, consistent with Article 73 b of the Charter, 
and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations to provide 
assistance to the Territory, if requested; 

 3. Also requests the administering Power to continue its assistance for the 
improvement of the economic, social, educational and other conditions of the 
population of the Territory and to continue its discussions with the territorial 
Government on how best to support socioeconomic and environmental security in 
Pitcairn;  

 4. Welcomes the work carried out on the preparation of a five-year strategic 
development plan for the island;  

 

__________________ 
16 A/AC.109/2012/3. 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 28 
 

  IX 
Saint Helena 

 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on Saint 
Helena17 and other relevant information,  

 Recalling the statement made by the representative of Saint Helena at the 
Caribbean regional seminar held in Frigate Bay, Saint Kitts and Nevis, from 12 to 
14 May 2009,  

 Taking into account the unique character of Saint Helena in terms of its 
population, geography and natural resources,  

 Cognizant that Saint Helena continues to receive budgetary aid from the 
administering Power for the operation of the territorial Government,  

 Aware of the efforts of the administering Power and the territorial Government 
to improve the socioeconomic conditions of the population of Saint Helena, in 
particular in the areas of employment and transport and communications 
infrastructure,  

 Noting the efforts of the Territory to address the problem of unemployment on 
the island and the joint action of the administering Power and the territorial 
Government in dealing with it, including through the Labour Market Strategy 2012-
2014 and the Sustainable Economic Development Plan 2012/13-2021/22,  

 Noting also the importance of improving the infrastructure and accessibility of 
Saint Helena and, in that regard, the approval of the administering Power, in 2011, 
of the building of an airport on the island of Saint Helena,  

 1. Stresses the importance of the Territory’s 2009 Constitution;  

 2. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public outreach efforts, consistent with Article 73 b of the Charter, 
and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations to provide 
assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 3. Requests the administering Power and relevant international organizations 
to continue to support the efforts of the territorial Government to address the 
Territory’s socioeconomic development challenges, including unemployment, and 
limited transport and communications infrastructure;  

 4. Calls upon the administering Power to take into account the unique 
geographical character of Saint Helena while resolving any emerging issues related 
to the construction of the airport;  
 

  X 
Turks and Caicos Islands 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the Turks and 
Caicos Islands18 and other relevant information,  

__________________ 
17 A/AC.109/2012/5.  
18 A/AC.109/2012/9.  



 A/67/431
 

29 12-53381 
 

 Recalling the statement made by the representative of the Turks and Caicos 
Islands at the Caribbean regional seminar held in Frigate Bay, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
from 12 to 14 May 2009,  

 Recalling also the dispatch of the United Nations special mission to the Turks 
and Caicos Islands in 2006 at the request of the territorial Government and with the 
concurrence of the administering Power,  

 Aware of the 2002 report of the Constitutional Modernization Review Body, 
and acknowledging the Constitution agreed between the administering Power and 
the territorial Government, which entered into force in 2006,  

 Noting the decisions of the administering Power to suspend parts of the 2006 
Constitution of the Turks and Caicos Islands, covering the constitutional right to 
trial by jury, the ministerial Government and the House of Assembly, following the 
recommendations of an independent Commission of Inquiry and the ruling of the 
administering Power’s Court of Appeal, to present a draft constitution for public 
consultation in 2011 and to introduce a new constitution for the Territory,  

 Noting also the continued postponement of elections in the Territory,  

 Acknowledging the impact that the global economic slowdown and other 
relevant developments have had on tourism and related real estate development, the 
mainstays of the economy of the Territory,  

 1. Notes with grave concern the ongoing situation in the Turks and Caicos 
Islands, and notes the efforts of the administering Power to restore good governance, 
including through the introduction in 2011 of a new constitution and the planned 
elections in November 2012, and sound financial management in the Territory;  

 2. Calls for the restoration of constitutional arrangements providing for 
representative democracy through an elected territorial Government as soon as 
possible;  

 3. Notes the positions and repeated calls of the Caribbean Community and 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries for the restoration of a democratically 
elected territorial Government as a matter of urgency, and also notes the view 
expressed by the administering Power that elections should not be postponed any 
longer than necessary;  

 4. Also notes the extensive public consultations undertaken by the 
Constitutional and Electoral Reform Adviser and the continuing debate on 
constitutional and electoral reform within the Territory, and stresses the importance 
of participation by all groups and interested parties in the consultation process;  

 5. Stresses the importance of having in place in the Territory a constitution 
that reflects the aspirations and wishes of the people of the Territory, based on the 
mechanisms for popular consultation;  

 6. Requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating its 
work concerning public outreach efforts, consistent with Article 73 b of the Charter, 
and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations to provide 
assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 7. Welcomes the active participation of the Territory in the work of the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean;  



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 30 
 

 8. Also welcomes the continuing efforts made by the territorial Government 
addressing the need for attention to be paid to the enhancement of socioeconomic 
development across the Territory;  

 

  XI 
United States Virgin Islands 
 

 Taking note of the working paper prepared by the Secretariat on the United 
States Virgin Islands19 and other relevant information,  

 Aware that under United States law the relations between the territorial 
Government and the federal Government in all matters not the programme 
responsibility of another federal department or agency are under the general 
administrative supervision of the Secretary of the Interior,20  

 Aware also of the fifth attempt of the Territory to review the existing Revised 
Organic Act, which organizes its internal governance arrangements, as well as its 
requests to the administering Power and the United Nations system for assistance to 
its public education programme,  

 Cognizant that a draft constitution was proposed in 2009 and subsequently 
forwarded to the administering Power, which in 2010 requested the Territory to 
consider its objections to the draft constitution,  

 Aware of the closing of the Hovensa plant in 2011 and the negative impact on 
manufacturing and the labour situation in the Territory,  

 Cognizant of the potential usefulness of regional ties for the development of a 
small island Territory,  

 1. Welcomes the proposal of a draft constitution emanating from the 
Territory in 2009, as a result of the work of the United States Virgin Islands Fifth 
Constitutional Convention, for review by the administering Power, and requests the 
administering Power to assist the territorial Government in achieving its political, 
economic and social goals, in particular the successful conclusion of the ongoing 
internal Constitutional Convention exercise; 

 2. Requests the administering Power to facilitate the process for approval of 
the proposed territorial constitution in the United States Congress and its 
implementation, once agreed upon in the Territory; 

 3. Also requests the administering Power to assist the Territory by facilitating 
its work concerning a public education programme, consistent with Article 73 b of 
the Charter, and in that regard calls upon the relevant United Nations organizations 
to provide assistance to the Territory, if requested;  

 4. Expresses its concern regarding the negative impact of the Hovensa plant 
closure;  

 5. Reiterates its call for the inclusion of the Territory in regional programmes 
of the United Nations Development Programme, consistent with the participation of 
other Non-Self-Governing Territories;  

__________________ 
19 A/AC.109/2012/8.  
20 United States Congress, Revised Organic Act, 1954.  



 A/67/431
 

31 12-53381 
 

 6. Welcomes the active participation of the Territory in the work of the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean;  

 7. Also welcomes the holding, for the first time at the level of heads of 
territorial Government, on 12 May 2011, of the meeting of the Inter-Virgin Islands 
Council between the Territory and the British Virgin Islands. 

 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 32 
 

  Draft resolution V  
  Dissemination of information on decolonization 

 
 

 The General Assembly,  

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2012 relating to the 
dissemination of information on decolonization and publicity for the work of the 
United Nations in the field of decolonization,1  

 Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations concerning the dissemination 
of information on decolonization, in particular General Assembly resolution 66/90 
of 9 December 2011, 

 Recognizing the need for flexible, practical and innovative approaches towards 
reviewing the options of self-determination for the peoples of Non-Self-Governing 
Territories with a view to implementing the plan of action for the Third International 
Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism,  

 Reiterating the importance of dissemination of information as an instrument 
for furthering the aims of the Declaration, and mindful of the role of world public 
opinion in effectively assisting the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories to 
achieve self-determination,  

 Recognizing the role played by the administering Powers in transmitting 
information to the Secretary-General in accordance with the terms of Article 73 e of 
the Charter of the United Nations,  

 Recognizing also the role of the Department of Public Information of the 
Secretariat, through the United Nations information centres, in the dissemination of 
information at the regional level on the activities of the United Nations,  

 Recalling the issuance by the Department of Public Information, in 
consultation with the United Nations Development Programme, the specialized 
agencies and the Special Committee, of an information leaflet on assistance 
programmes available to the Non-Self-Governing Territories,  

 Aware of the role of non-governmental organizations in the dissemination of 
information on decolonization,  

 1. Approves the activities in the field of dissemination of information on 
decolonization undertaken by the Department of Public Information and the 
Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat, in accordance with the relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations on decolonization, and recalls with satisfaction the 
publication, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 61/129 of 14 December 
2006, of the information leaflet entitled “What the UN Can Do to Assist Non-Self-
Governing Territories”, which was updated for the United Nations website on 
decolonization in May 2009, and encourages continued updating and wide 
dissemination of the information leaflet;  

__________________ 
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
 corrigendum (A/67/23 and Corr.1), chap. III. 



 A/67/431
 

33 12-53381 
 

 2. Considers it important to continue and expand its efforts to ensure the 
widest possible dissemination of information on decolonization, with particular 
emphasis on the options for self-determination available for the peoples of Non-
Self-Governing Territories, and to this end requests the Department of Public 
Information, through the United Nations information centres in the relevant regions, 
to actively engage and seek new and innovative ways to disseminate material to the 
Non-Self-Governing Territories;  

 3. Requests the Secretary-General to further enhance the information 
provided on the United Nations decolonization website and to continue to include 
the full series of reports of the regional seminars on decolonization, the statements 
and scholarly papers presented at those seminars and links to the full series of 
reports of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation 
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples;  

 4. Requests the Department of Public Information to continue its efforts to 
update web-based information on the assistance programmes available to the Non-Self-
Governing Territories;  

 5. Requests the Department of Political Affairs and the Department of 
Public Information to implement the recommendations of the Special Committee 
and to continue their efforts to take measures through all the media available, 
including publications, radio and television, as well as the Internet, to give publicity 
to the work of the United Nations in the field of decolonization and, inter alia:  

 (a) To develop procedures to collect, prepare and disseminate, particularly to 
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, basic material on the issue of self-determination 
of the peoples of the Territories;  

 (b) To seek the full cooperation of the administering Powers in the discharge 
of the tasks referred to above;  

 (c) To explore further the idea of a programme of collaboration with the 
decolonization focal points of territorial Governments, particularly in the Pacific 
and Caribbean regions, to help to improve the exchange of information;  

 (d) To encourage the involvement of non-governmental organizations in the 
dissemination of information on decolonization;  

 (e) To encourage the involvement of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in 
the dissemination of information on decolonization;  

 (f) To report to the Special Committee on measures taken in the 
implementation of the present resolution;  

 6. Requests all States, including the administering Powers, to accelerate the 
dissemination of information referred to in paragraph 2 above;  

 7. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine this question and 
to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session on the implementation 
of the present resolution. 

 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 34 
 

  Draft resolution VI 
  Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 

to Colonial Countries and Peoples 
 
 

 The General Assembly,  

 Having examined the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2012,1  

 Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
all its subsequent resolutions concerning the implementation of the Declaration, the 
most recent of which was resolution 66/91 of 9 December 2011, as well as the 
relevant resolutions of the Security Council,  

 Bearing in mind its resolution 65/119 of 10 December 2010, by which it 
declared the period 2011-2020 the Third International Decade for the Eradication of 
Colonialism, and the need to examine ways to ascertain the wishes of the peoples of 
the Non-Self-Governing Territories on the basis of resolution 1514 (XV) and other 
relevant resolutions on decolonization,  

 Recognizing that the eradication of colonialism has been one of the priorities 
of the United Nations and continues to be one of its priorities for the decade that 
began in 2011,  

 Regretting that measures to eliminate colonialism by 2010, as called for in its 
resolution 55/146 of 8 December 2000, have not been successful,  

 Reiterating its conviction of the need for the eradication of colonialism, as 
well as racial discrimination and violations of basic human rights,  

 Noting with satisfaction the continued efforts of the Special Committee in 
contributing to the effective and complete implementation of the Declaration and 
other relevant resolutions of the United Nations on decolonization,  

 Stressing the importance of the formal participation of the administering 
Powers in the work of the Special Committee,  

 Noting with satisfaction the cooperation and active participation of certain 
administering Powers in the work of the Special Committee, and encouraging the 
others also to do so,  

 Noting that the Pacific regional seminar was held in Quito from 30 May to 
1 June 2012,  

 1. Reaffirms its resolution 1514 (XV) and all other resolutions and decisions 
on decolonization, including its resolution 65/119, by which it declared the period 
2011-2020 the Third International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, and 
calls upon the administering Powers, in accordance with those resolutions, to take 
all steps necessary to enable the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
concerned to exercise fully as soon as possible their right to self-determination, 
including independence;  

__________________ 
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 23 and 
 corrigendum (A/67/23 and Corr.1). 



 A/67/431
 

35 12-53381 
 

 2. Reaffirms once again that the existence of colonialism in any form or 
manifestation, including economic exploitation, is incompatible with the Charter of 
the United Nations, the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;2  

 3. Reaffirms its determination to continue to take all steps necessary to 
bring about the complete and speedy eradication of colonialism and the faithful 
observance by all States of the relevant provisions of the Charter, the Declaration on 
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights;  

 4. Affirms once again its support for the aspirations of the peoples under 
colonial rule to exercise their right to self-determination, including independence, in 
accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations on decolonization;  

 5. Calls upon the administering Powers to cooperate fully with the Special 
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on 
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to develop and 
finalize, as soon as possible, a constructive programme of work on a case-by-case 
basis for the Non-Self-Governing Territories to facilitate the implementation of the 
mandate of the Special Committee and the relevant resolutions on decolonization, 
including resolutions on specific Territories;  

 6. Recalls with satisfaction the professional, open and transparent conduct 
of both the February 2006 and the October 2007 referendums to determine the 
future status of Tokelau, monitored by the United Nations;  

 7. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek suitable means for the 
immediate and full implementation of the Declaration and to carry out the actions 
approved by the General Assembly regarding the Second and Third International 
Decades for the Eradication of Colonialism in all Territories that have not yet 
exercised their right to self-determination, including independence, and in particular:  

 (a) To formulate specific proposals to bring about an end to colonialism and 
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session;  

 (b) To continue to examine the implementation by Member States of 
resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions on decolonization;  

 (c) To continue to examine the political, economic and social situation in the 
Non-Self-Governing Territories, and to recommend, as appropriate, to the General 
Assembly the most suitable steps to be taken to enable the populations of those 
Territories to exercise their right to self-determination, including independence, in 
accordance with the relevant resolutions on decolonization, including resolutions on 
specific Territories;  

 (d) To develop and finalize, as soon as possible and in cooperation with the 
administering Power and the Territory in question, a constructive programme of 
work on a case-by-case basis for the Non-Self-Governing Territories to facilitate the 
implementation of the mandate of the Special Committee and the relevant 
resolutions on decolonization, including resolutions on specific Territories;  

__________________ 
2 Resolution 217 A (III).  



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 36 
 

 (e) To continue to dispatch visiting and special missions to the Non-Self-
Governing Territories in accordance with the relevant resolutions on decolonization, 
including resolutions on specific Territories;  

 (f) To conduct seminars, as appropriate, for the purpose of receiving and 
disseminating information on the work of the Special Committee, and to facilitate 
participation by the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in those seminars;  

 (g) To take all steps necessary to enlist worldwide support among 
Governments, as well as national and international organizations, for the 
achievement of the objectives of the Declaration and the implementation of the 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations; 

 (h) To observe annually the Week of Solidarity with the Peoples of 
Non-Self-Governing Territories;  

 8. Recalls that the plan of action for the Second International Decade for 
the Eradication of Colonialism,3 updated as necessary, represents an important 
legislative authority for the attainment of self-government by the Non-Self-
Governing Territories, and that the case-by-case assessment of the attainment of 
self-government in each Territory can make an important contribution to this process;  

 9. Calls upon all States, in particular the administering Powers, as well as 
the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, to 
give effect within their respective spheres of competence to the recommendations of 
the Special Committee for the implementation of the Declaration and other relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations;  

 10. Calls upon the administering Powers to ensure that economic and other 
activities in the Non-Self-Governing Territories under their administration do not 
adversely affect the interests of the peoples but instead promote development, and to 
assist them in the exercise of their right to self-determination;  

 11. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to 
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable rights of the peoples of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories to their natural resources and to establish and maintain control 
over the future development of those resources, and requests the relevant 
administering Power to take all steps necessary to protect the property rights of the 
peoples of those Territories;  

 12. Urges all States, directly and through their action in the specialized 
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, to provide moral and 
material assistance, as needed, to the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, 
and requests the administering Powers to take steps to enlist and make effective use 
of all possible assistance, on both a bilateral and a multilateral basis, in the 
strengthening of the economies of those Territories;  

 13. Requests the Secretary-General, the specialized agencies and other 
organizations of the United Nations system to provide economic, social and other 
assistance to the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to continue to do so, as 
appropriate, after they exercise their right to self-determination, including 
independence;  

__________________ 
3 A/56/61, annex.  



 A/67/431
 

37 12-53381 
 

 14. Reaffirms that the United Nations visiting missions to the Territories are 
an effective means of ascertaining the situation in the Territories, as well as the 
wishes and aspirations of their inhabitants, and calls upon the administering Powers 
to continue to cooperate with the Special Committee in the discharge of its mandate 
and to facilitate visiting missions to the Territories;  

 15. Calls upon all the administering Powers to cooperate fully in the work of 
the Special Committee and to participate formally in its future sessions;  

 16. Approves the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples covering its work during 2012, including the 
programme of work envisaged for 2013;1  

 17. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Committee with 
the facilities and services required for the implementation of the present resolution, 
as well as the other resolutions and decisions on decolonization adopted by the 
General Assembly and the Special Committee.  

 



A/67/431  
 

12-53381 38 
 

26. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) also 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft decision: 
 
 

  Question of Gibraltar 
 
 

 The General Assembly, recalling its decision 66/522 of 9 December 2011: 

 (a) Urges the Governments of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, while listening to the interests and aspirations of 
Gibraltar, to reach, in the spirit of the Brussels Declaration of 27 November 1984,1 
a definitive solution to the question of Gibraltar, in the light of relevant resolutions 
of the General Assembly and applicable principles, and in the spirit of the Charter of 
the United Nations; 

 (b) Takes note of the desire of the United Kingdom to continue with the 
trilateral Forum for Dialogue on Gibraltar; 

 (c) Takes note of the desire of Spain to replace the Forum with a new 
mechanism for local cooperation in the interest of social well-being and regional 
economic development, in which the people of the Campo de Gibraltar and 
Gibraltar are represented. 

 

__________________ 

 1  A/39/732, annex. 


