






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/67/427

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
23 October 2012 
 
Original: English 

 

12-53351 (E)    091112     
*1253351*   

Sixty-seventh session  
Agenda item 56 

 
 
 

  Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories 
transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the 
United Nations 
 
 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee) 
 
 

Rapporteur: Mr. Zulfi Ismaili (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 21 September 2012, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 
its sixty-seventh session the item entitled “Information from Non-Self-Governing 
Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations” and to 
allocate it to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).  

2. At its 1st meeting, on 4 October 2012, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a 
general debate on decolonization items (agenda items 56 to 60). The general debate 
on those items was held at the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th meetings, on 8, 9, 10, 
11 and 12 October (see A/C.4/67/SR.2, 3, 4, 5 and 6). The Committee took action on 
item 56 at its 7th meeting, on 15 October (see A/C.4/67/SR.7).  

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following 
documents:  

 (a) Relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 
to Colonial Countries and Peoples (A/67/23 and Corr.1, chaps. VII and XII);  

 (b) Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/71).  

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 8 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 
to Colonial Countries and Peoples, introduced the report of the Special Committee. 
At the same meeting, the representative of Ecuador, in his capacity as Chair of the 



A/67/427  
 

12-53351 2 
 

Special Committee, made a statement in which he gave an account of the activities 
of the Special Committee during 2012 (see A/C.4/67/SR.2).  
 
 

 II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in chapter XII 
of the report of the Special Committee  
 
 

5. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Fourth Committee was informed that 
draft resolution I, entitled “Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories 
transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations”, contained in 
chapter XII of the report of the Special Committee (A/67/23 and Corr.1), did not 
have programme budget implications.  

6. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution I by a 
recorded vote of 161 to none, with 4 abstentions (see para. 7). The voting was as 
follows:1  

In favour:  
 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 

Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, 
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, 
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, 
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, 
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.  

Against:  
 None.  

Abstaining:  
 France, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United 

States of America.  
__________________ 

 1  The delegations of Mauritius and the United Arab Emirates subsequently indicated that, had they 
been present, they would have voted in favour.  



 A/67/427
 

3 12-53351 
 

 III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization 
Committee (Fourth Committee) 
 
 

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution: 
 
 

  Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted 
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it 
requested the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation 
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples to study the information transmitted to the Secretary-General in accordance 
with Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations and to take such information 
fully into account in examining the situation with regard to the implementation of 
the Declaration, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 
14 December 1960, 

 Recalling also its resolution 66/82 of 9 December 2011, in which it requested 
the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted to it under 
resolution 1970 (XVIII), 

 Stressing the importance of timely transmission by the administering Powers 
of adequate information under Article 73 e of the Charter, in particular in relation to 
the preparation by the Secretariat of the working papers on the Territories 
concerned, 

 Having examined the report of the Secretary-General,1  

 1. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly 
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of self-
government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter of the United Nations, the 
administering Power concerned should continue to transmit information under 
Article 73 e of the Charter with respect to that Territory; 

 2. Requests the administering Powers concerned, in accordance with their 
Charter obligations, to transmit or continue to transmit regularly to the Secretary-
General for information purposes, subject to such limitation as security and 
constitutional considerations may require, statistical and other information of a 
technical nature relating to economic, social and educational conditions in the 
Territories for which they are respectively responsible, as well as the fullest possible 
information on political and constitutional developments in the Territories 
concerned, including the constitution, legislative act or executive order providing 
for the government of the Territory and the constitutional relationship of the 
Territory to the administering Power, within a maximum period of six months 
following the expiration of the administrative year in those Territories; 

__________________ 

 1  A/67/71. 



A/67/427  
 

12-53351 4 
 

 3. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that adequate 
information is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the 
preparation of the working papers relating to the Territories concerned; 

 4. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to continue to discharge the functions entrusted to it under 
General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with established 
procedures. 

 


