






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/68/430

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
24 October 2013 
 
Original: English 

 

13-49381 (E)    311013 
*1349381*   

Sixty-eighth session 
Agenda item 57 

 
 
 

  Economic and other activities which affect the interests  
of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories  
 
 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee)  
 
 

  Rapporteur: Mr. Michal Komada (Slovakia)  
 
 

 I. Introduction  
 
 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 20 September 2013, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 
its sixty-eighth session the item entitled “Economic and other activities which affect 
the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories” and to allocate it 
to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).  

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 3 October 2013, the Fourth Committee decided to hold 
a general debate on decolonization items (agenda items 56 to 60). The general 
debate on those items was held at the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th meetings, on 7, 
8, 9, 10, 11 and 14 October (see A/C.4/68/SR.3-8). The Committee took action on 
item 57 at its 8th meeting, on 14 October (see A/C.4/68/SR.8).  

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the relevant 
chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples (A/68/23, chaps. V and XIII).  

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 7 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, introduced the report of the 
Special Committee. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba, in his capacity 
as Acting Chair of the Special Committee, made a statement in which he gave an 
account of the activities of the Special Committee during 2013 (see A/C.4/68/SR.3).  
 
 

http://undocs.org/A/C.4/68/SR.3
http://undocs.org/A/C.4/68/SR.8
http://undocs.org/A/68/23
http://undocs.org/A/C.4/68/SR.3


A/68/430  
 

13-49381 2/5 
 

 II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in chapter XIII 
of the report of the Special Committee 
 
 

5. At its 8th meeting, on 14 October, the Fourth Committee was informed that 
draft resolution II, entitled “Economic and other activities which affect the interests 
of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”, contained in chapter XIII of 
the report of the Special Committee (A/68/23), had no programme budget 
implications.  

6. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution II by a 
recorded vote of 153 to 2, with 2 abstentions (see para. 7). The voting was as 
follows:1  

In favour:  
 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 

Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, 
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, 
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, 
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, 
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libya, Liechtenstein, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, 
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, 
Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Solomon Islands, South 
Africa, South Sudan, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, 
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Viet 
Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.  

Against:  
 Israel, United States of America.  

Abstaining:  
 Rwanda, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.  

 

__________________ 

 1  The delegations of the Congo, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, the Niger, Saudi Arabia and Uzbekistan 
subsequently indicated that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour. 

http://undocs.org/A/68/23


 A/68/430
 

3/5 13-49381 
 

 III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization 
Committee (Fourth Committee)  
 
 

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution:  
 
 

  Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the 
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Having considered the item entitled “Economic and other activities which 
affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”, 

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2013 relating to the item,1  

 Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, as well as all other 
relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, including, in particular, resolutions 
46/181 of 19 December 1991, 55/146 of 8 December 2000 and 65/119 of 
10 December 2010, 

 Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the 
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and 
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their 
administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those Territories 
against abuses,  

 Reaffirming also that any economic or other activity that has a negative impact 
on the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and on the 
exercise of their right to self-determination in conformity with the Charter and 
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) is contrary to the purposes and principles 
of the Charter, 

 Reaffirming further that the natural resources are the heritage of the peoples of 
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, including the indigenous populations, 

 Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location, size and 
economic conditions of each Territory, and bearing in mind the need to promote the 
stability, diversification and strengthening of the economy of each Territory, 

 Conscious of the particular vulnerability of the small Territories to natural 
disasters and environmental degradation, 

 Conscious also that foreign economic investment, when undertaken in 
collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in 
accordance with their wishes, could make a valid contribution to the socioeconomic 
development of the Territories and also to the exercise of their right to self-
determination, 

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/68/23), 
chap. V. 

http://undocs.org/A/RES/46/181
http://undocs.org/A/RES/55/146
http://undocs.org/A/RES/65/119


A/68/430  
 

13-49381 4/5 
 

 Concerned about any activities aimed at exploiting the natural and human 
resources of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to the detriment of the interests of 
the inhabitants of those Territories, 

 Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the 
successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries 
and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government 
of the African Union, the Pacific Islands Forum and the Caribbean Community, 

 1. Reaffirms the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
to self-determination in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and with 
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), containing the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as well as their right to the 
enjoyment of their natural resources and their right to dispose of those resources in 
their best interest; 

 2. Affirms the value of foreign economic investment undertaken in 
collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in 
accordance with their wishes in order to make a valid contribution to the 
socioeconomic development of the Territories, especially during times of economic 
and financial crisis; 

 3. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Powers under the 
Charter to promote the political, economic, social and educational advancement of 
the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and reaffirms the legitimate rights of their 
peoples over their natural resources; 

 4. Reaffirms its concern about any activities aimed at the exploitation of the 
natural resources that are the heritage of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing 
Territories, including the indigenous populations, in the Caribbean, the Pacific and 
other regions, and of their human resources, to the detriment of their interests, and 
in such a way as to deprive them of their right to dispose of those resources; 

 5. Reaffirms the need to avoid any economic and other activities that 
adversely affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories; 

 6. Calls once again upon all Governments that have not yet done so to take, 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolution 2621 
(XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other measures in respect 
of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that own and 
operate enterprises in the Non-Self-Governing Territories that are detrimental to the 
interests of the inhabitants of those Territories, in order to put an end to such 
enterprises; 

 7. Calls upon the administering Powers to ensure that the exploitation of the 
marine and other natural resources in the Non-Self-Governing Territories under their 
administration is not in violation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, 
and does not adversely affect the interests of the peoples of those Territories; 

 8. Invites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations system 
to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty of the peoples 
of the Non-Self-Governing Territories over their natural resources is fully respected 
and safeguarded in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations 
on decolonization; 



 A/68/430
 

5/5 13-49381 
 

 9. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to 
safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories to their natural resources and to establish and maintain control 
over the future development of those resources, and requests the administering 
Powers to take all steps necessary to protect the property rights of the peoples of 
those Territories in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations 
on decolonization; 

 10. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no 
discriminatory working conditions prevail in the Territories under their 
administration and to promote in each Territory a fair system of wages applicable to 
all the inhabitants without any discrimination; 

 11. Requests the Secretary-General to continue, through all means at his 
disposal, to inform world public opinion of any activity that affects the exercise of 
the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination 
in conformity with the Charter and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV); 

 12. Appeals to trade unions and non-governmental organizations, as well as 
individuals, to continue their efforts to promote the economic well-being of the 
peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and also appeals to the media to 
disseminate information about the developments in this regard; 

 13. Decides to follow the situation in the Non-Self-Governing Territories so 
as to ensure that all economic activities in those Territories are aimed at 
strengthening and diversifying their economies in the interest of their peoples, 
including the indigenous populations, and at promoting the economic and financial 
viability of those Territories; 

 14. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon to 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. 

 


