













































Etpu


 United Nations  A/69/L.84 

  

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
29 July 2015 

 

Original: English 

 

 

15-12959 (E)    300715 

*1512959* 
 

 

Sixty-ninth session  

Agenda item 13 (a)  

Integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up  

to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and  

summits in the economic, social and related fields  
 

 

 

  South Africa:* draft resolution  
 

 

  Basic Principles on Sovereign Debt Restructuring Processes  
 

 

 The General Assembly,  

 Recalling its resolutions 68/304 of 9 September 2014 and 69/247 of 

29 December 2014 concerning sovereign debt restructuring processes,  

 Welcoming the work carried out by the Ad Hoc Committee established under 

resolution 69/247, throughout its working sessions in New York from 3 to 5 February, 

from 28 to 30 April, and on 27 and 28 July 2015,  

 Stressing the importance of a clear set of principles for the management and 

resolution of financial crises that take into account the obligation of soverei gn 

debtors and their creditors to act in good faith and with a cooperative spirit to reach 

a consensual rearrangement of the debt of sovereign States,  

 Considering the desirability of the wide dissemination and implementation of 

the principles, in accordance with national policies and circumstances,  

 1. Declares that sovereign debt restructuring processes should be guided by 

the following Basic Principles, as included in the report of the Ad Hoc Committee:  

 1. A Sovereign State has the right, in the exercise of its discret ion, to design 

its macroeconomic policy, including restructuring its sovereign debt, which 

should not be frustrated or impeded by any abusive measures. Restructuring 

should be done as the last resort and preserving at the outset creditors’ rights.  

 2. Good faith by both the sovereign debtor and all its creditors would entail 

their engagement in constructive sovereign debt restructuring workout 

negotiations and other stages of the process with the aim of a prompt and 

durable re-establishment of debt sustainability and debt servicing, as well as 

__________________ 

 *  On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77  

and China.  



A/69/L.84 
 

 

15-12959 2/2 

 

achieving the support of a critical mass of creditors through a constructive 

dialogue regarding the restructuring terms.  

 3. Transparency should be promoted in order to enhance the accountability 

of the actors concerned, which can be achieved through the timely sharing of 

both data and processes related to sovereign debt workouts.   

 4. Impartiality requires that all institutions and actors involved in sovereign 

debt restructuring workouts, including at the regional level, in accordance with 

their respective mandates, enjoy independence and refrain from exercising any 

undue influence over the process and other stakeholders or engaging in actions 

that would give rise to conflicts of interest or corruption or both.  

 5. Equitable treatment imposes on States the duty to refrain from arbitrarily 

discriminating among creditors, unless a different treatment is justified under 

the law, is reasonable, and is correlated to the characteristics of the credit, 

guaranteeing inter-creditor equality, discussed among all creditors. Creditors 

have the right to receive the same proportionate treatment in accordance with 

their credit and its characteristics. No creditors or creditor groups should be 

excluded ex ante from the sovereign debt restructuring process.  

 6. Sovereign immunity from jurisdiction and execution regarding sovereign 

debt restructurings is a right of States before foreign domestic courts and 

exceptions should be restrictively interpreted.  

 7. Legitimacy entails that the establishment of institutions and the operations 

related to sovereign debt restructuring workouts respect requirements of 

inclusiveness and the rule of law, at all levels. The terms and conditions of the 

original contracts should remain valid until such time as they are modified by 

a restructuring agreement.  

 8. Sustainability implies that sovereign debt restructuring workouts are 

completed in a timely and efficient manner and lead to a stable debt situation 

in the debtor State, preserving at the outset creditors’ rights while promoting 

sustained and inclusive economic growth and sustainable development, 

minimizing economic and social costs, warranting the stability of the 

international financial system and respecting human rights.  

 9. Majority restructuring implies that sovereign debt restructuring 

agreements that are approved by a qualified majority of the creditors of a State 

are not to be affected, jeopardized or otherwise impeded by other States or a 

non-representative minority of creditors, who must respect the decisions 

adopted by the majority of the creditors. States should be encouraged to 

include collective action clauses in their sovereign debt to be issued;   

 2. Invites all Member and observer States, competent international 

organizations, entities and other relevant stakeholders to support and promote the 

Basic Principles set out above, and requests the Secretary-General to make all 

efforts so that the Principles become generally known;  

 3. Decides to continue to consider improved approaches to restructuring 

sovereign debt, taking into account the Basic Principles set out above and work 

carried out by the international financial institutions, in accordance with their 

respective mandates, and to this effect decides further to define the modalities for 

such consideration at its seventieth session.  


