













































Etpu


 United Nations  A/70/502 

  

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
27 October 2015 

English 

Original: French 

 

 

15-18658 (E)    301015     

*1518658* 
 

 

Seventieth session 

Agenda item 60 
 

 

 

  Economic and other activities which affect the interests of 
the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
 

 

  Report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 

(Fourth Committee) 
 

 

  Rapporteur: Ms. Clotilde Ferry (Monaco) 
 

 

 I. Introduction 
 

 

1. At its 2nd plenary meeting, on 18 September 2015, the General Assembly, on 

the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of 

its seventieth session the item entitled “Economic and other activities which affect 

the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories” and to allocate it 

to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee).  

2. At its 1st meeting, on 7 October 2015, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a 

general debate on decolonization items (agenda items 59 to 63). The general debate 

on those items was held at the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th meetings, on 8, 9 and 

from 12 to 15 October (see A/C.4/70/SR.2-7). The Committee took action on item 

60 at its 7th meeting, on 15 October (see A/C.4/70/SR.7).  

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the relevant 

chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 

Countries and Peoples (A/70/23, chaps. V and XIII).  

4. At the 2nd meeting, on 8 October, the representative of the Syrian Arab 

Republic, in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 

with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 

Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, introduced the report of the 

Special Committee. At the same meeting, the representative of Indonesia, in his 

capacity as Acting Chair of the Special Committee, made a statement in which he 

gave an account of the activities of the Special Committee in 2015 (see 

A/C.4/70/SR.2).  

 

 

http://undocs.org/A/C.4/70/SR.2
http://undocs.org/A/C.4/70/SR.7
http://undocs.org/A/70/23
http://undocs.org/A/C.4/70/SR.2


A/70/502 
 

 

15-18658 2/5 

 

 II. Consideration of a draft resolution contained in  
chapter XIII of the report of the Special Committee 
 

 

5. At its 7th meeting, on 15 October, the Fourth Committee was informed that 

draft resolution II, entitled “Economic and other activities which affect the interests 

of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”, contained in chapter XIII of 

the report of the Special Committee (A/70/23), had no programme budget 

implications.  

6. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution II by a 

recorded vote of 158 to 2, with 3 abstentions (see para.  7). The voting was as 

follows:
1
 

In favour: 

 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, 

Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 

Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, 

Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, 

Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, 

Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People ’s 

Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, 

Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, 

Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, 

Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 

Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 

Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 

Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, 

Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, 

Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, 

New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 

New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 

Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint 

Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 

Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, 

Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian 

Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 

Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, 

Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, 

Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.  

Against: 

 Israel, United States of America.  

Abstaining: 

 France, Palau, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.  

  

__________________ 

 
1
  The delegation of Uzbekistan subsequently indicated that, had it been present, it would have 

voted in favour. 

http://undocs.org/A/70/23


 
A/70/502 

 

3/5 15-18658 

 

 III. Recommendation of the Special Political and Decolonization 
Committee (Fourth Committee) 
 

 

7. The Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) 

recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolution:  

 

 

  Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the 

peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 
 

 

 The General Assembly,  

 Having considered the item entitled “Economic and other activities which 

affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories”,  

 Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 

Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of 

Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples for 2015 relating to the item,
2
 

 Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, as well as all other 

relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, including, in particular, resolutions 

46/181 of 19 December 1991, 55/146 of 8 December 2000 and 65/119 of  

10 December 2010,  

 Reaffirming the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the 

Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and 

educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their 

administration and to protect the human and natural resources of those Territories 

against abuses,  

 Reaffirming also that any economic or other activity that has a negative impact 

on the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and on the 

exercise of their right to self-determination in conformity with the Charter and 

General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) is contrary to the purposes and principles 

of the Charter,  

 Reaffirming further that the natural resources are the heritage of the peoples of 

the Non-Self-Governing Territories, including the indigenous populations,  

 Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location, size and 

economic conditions of each Territory, and bearing in mind the need to promote the 

stability, diversification and strengthening of the economy of each Territory,  

 Conscious of the particular vulnerability of the small Territories to natural 

disasters and environmental degradation,  

 Conscious also that foreign economic investment, when undertaken in 

collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in 

accordance with their wishes, could make a valid contribution to the socioeconomic 

development of the Territories and also to the exercise of their right to self-

determination,  

__________________ 

 
2
  Official Records of the General Assembly, Seventieth Session, Supplement No. 23  (A/70/23), 

chap. V. 

http://undocs.org/A/70/23


A/70/502 
 

 

15-18658 4/5 

 

 Concerned about any activities aimed at exploiting the natural and human 

resources of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to the detriment of the interests of 

the inhabitants of those Territories,  

 Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the final documents of the 

successive Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non -Aligned Countries 

and of the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government 

of the African Union, the Pacific Islands Forum and the Caribbean Community,  

 1. Reaffirms the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories 

to self-determination in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and with 

General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), containing the Declaration on the Granting 

of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as well as their right to the 

enjoyment of their natural resources and their right to dispose of those resources in 

their best interest;  

 2. Affirms the value of foreign economic investment undertaken in 

collaboration with the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and in 

accordance with their wishes in order to make a valid contribution to the 

socioeconomic development of the Territories, especially during times of  economic 

and financial crisis;  

 3. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Powers under the 

Charter to promote the political, economic, social and educational advancement of 

the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and reaffirms the legitimate rights of their 

peoples over their natural resources;  

 4. Reaffirms its concern about any activities aimed at the exploitation of the 

natural resources that are the heritage of the peoples of the Non -Self-Governing 

Territories, including the indigenous populations, in the Caribbean, the Pacific and 

other regions, and of their human resources, to the detriment of their interests, and 

in such a way as to deprive them of their right to dispose of those resources;  

 5. Reaffirms the need to avoid any economic and other activities that 

adversely affect the interests of the peoples of the Non -Self-Governing Territories, 

and in this regard reminds the administering Powers of their responsibility and 

accountability vis-à-vis any detriment to the interests of the peoples of those 

Territories, in accordance with relevant resolutions of the United Nations on 

decolonization; 

 6. Calls once again upon all Governments that have not yet done so to take, 

in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolution 2 621 

(XXV) of 12 October 1970, legislative, administrative or other measures in respect 

of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that own and 

operate enterprises in the Non-Self-Governing Territories that are detrimental to the 

interests of the inhabitants of those Territories, in order to put an end to such 

enterprises;  

 7. Calls upon the administering Powers to ensure that the exploitation of 

the marine and other natural resources in the Non -Self-Governing Territories under 

their administration is not in violation of the relevant resolutions of the United 

Nations, and does not adversely affect the interests of the peoples of those 

Territories;  



 
A/70/502 

 

5/5 15-18658 

 

 8. Invites all Governments and organizations of the United Nations system 

to take all possible measures to ensure that the permanent sovereignty of the peoples 

of the Non-Self-Governing Territories over their natural resources is fully respected 

and safeguarded in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations 

on decolonization;  

 9. Urges the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures to 

safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the Non -Self-

Governing Territories to their natural resources and to establish and maintain 

control over the future development of those resources, and requests the 

administering Powers to take all steps necessary to protect the property rights of the 

peoples of those Territories in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United 

Nations on decolonization;  

 10. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to ensure that no 

discriminatory working conditions prevail in the Territories under their 

administration and to promote in each Territory a fair system of wages applicable to 

all the inhabitants without any discrimination;  

 11. Requests the Secretary-General to continue, through all means at his 

disposal, to inform world public opinion of any activity that affects the exercise of 

the right of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination 

in conformity with the Charter and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);  

 12. Appeals to trade unions and non-governmental organizations, as well as 

individuals, to continue their efforts to promote the economic well -being of the 

peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and also appeals to the media to 

disseminate information about the developments in this regard;  

 13. Decides to follow the situation in the Non-Self-Governing Territories so 

as to ensure that all economic activities in those Territories are aimed at 

strengthening and diversifying their economies in the interest of their peoples, 

including the indigenous populations, and at promoting the economic and financial 

viability of those Territories;  

 14. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 

Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon to 

the General Assembly at its seventy-first session.  

 


