








































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Di st.r ,
GENERAL

A/9748
12 December 1974
F:NGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Twenty-ninth session
Agenda item 23

IMPLE}lliNTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES

Chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with re~ard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Grantin~ of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples relating to specific Territories

not covered by other agenda items

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: r~. Arnaldo H. S. ARAUJO .{Guinea-Bissau}

1. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee {A/9750}, decided to include in the
agenda of its twenty-ninth session an item entitled:

"Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples: report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples."

At its 2237th plenary meeting, on the same day, the Assembly decided to allocate to
the Fourth Committee for consideration and report those chapters of the report of
the Special Committee relating to specific Territories.

2. The chapters of the Special Committee's report concerning the Territories
which were not covered by other agenda items related to the following specific
Territories:

74-35587 I ...



A/97 48•
Enr;lish
Page 2

Ne", Hebrides

Bermuda

Tokelau Islands

Gibraltar •••

Relevant chapter of the report
of the Special Committee

A/9623/Add.)1 (Part I), chap. X

A/9623/Add.4 (Part II) , chap. XI

A/9623/Add.4 (Part II) , chap. XII

A!9623/Add)1 (Part II) , chap. XIII

A/9623/Add.4 (Part II) , chap. XIV

A/9623/Add.5 (Part I) , chap. XV

A/9623/Add.5 (Part I) , chap. XVI

A/9623/Add.5 (Part I) , chap. XVII

A/9623/Add.5 (Part I) , chap. XVIII

A/9623/Add.5 (Part I) , c hap , XIX

A/9623/Add.5 (Part II), chap. XX

A/9623/Add.5 (Parts III and IV),
chap. XXI

A/9623/Add.5 (Part V) , chap. XXII

A/9623/Add.6 (Part I) , chap. XXIII

A/9623/Add.6 (Part I) , chap. XXIV

A/9623/Add.6 (Part I) , chap. XXlJ

A/9623/Add.6 (Part II) , chap. XXVI

A/9623/Add.6 (Part II) , chap. XXVII

A/9623/Add.6 (Parts II and III),
chap. XXlJIII

. . .

.. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. ..

.. .. . .. .. .. " ..

Antigua, Dominica, st. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia and St. Vincent •••••.•••

Comoro Archipelago

Territory

Belize

Brunei

Gilbert and Ellice Islands, Pitcairn and the
Solomon Islands .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • .. ..

Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Papua New Guinea ~

British Virgin Islands, Caocman Islands,
!1ontserrat and the Turks and Caicos Islands

Niue

Spanish Sahara

American Samoa and Guam

Uni t ed States Virgin Islands

Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

Falkland Islands (Malvinas)

Seychelles and St. Helena

French Somaliland y

y Note by the Ranporteur: See foot-note y of the chapter cited concerninR
the ne", designation of the Territory.

~I An account of the Fourth COIDmittee's consideration of Papua New Guinea IS
given in the Committee's report relatinf, to agenda items 13 and 23 (A/9747).

I ....



A/9748
English
Page 3

3. At its 2080th meeting, on 1 October, the Fourth Conlffiittee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 13, 23, 64, 69 and 12, 70 and 71, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

4. The Fourth Committee considered item 23 at its 2115th to 2131st meetings,
between 21 November and 11 December.

5. At the 2115th meeting, on 21 November, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced the chapters
of the report of that Committee referred to in paragraph 2 above. The Fourth
Coramittee also had before it the following communications addressed to the
Secretary-General:

(a) Letter dated 8 July and note verbale dated 23 September 1974 from
Morocco (A/9654 and A/9771);

(b) Letters from Spain dated 10 July, 20 August and 13 September 1974
(A/9655, A/9714 and A/9736);

(c) Letter from Mauritania dated 20 August 1974 (A/97l5);

(d) Letters from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
dated 24 and 29 October 197 1, (A/98l4 and A/982l);

(e) Letter from Argentina dated 30 October 1974 (A/9824);

(f) Letter from France and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland dated 18 November 1974 (A/9861).

In addition, the Committee had before it the following co~~unications addressed to
the President of the General Assembly:

(a) Letter from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
date~ 11 October 1974 (A/9802);

(b) Letter from Guatemala dated 29 November 1974 (A/9915).

6. At the 2119th and 2121st meetings, on 26 and 28 November, st~tements were made
by Mr. Young Vivian, representative of the Government of Niue.

7. At its 2122nd meeting, on 29 November, the Fourth Committee heard a statement
by ~tr. C. L. B. Rogers, Deputy Prime Minister of Belize.

8. At its 2128th meeting, on 6 December, the Fourth Committee heard a statement
by 11r. Said Mohamed Djohar, representative of the Government of the Comoro
Archipelago.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 4

9. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 3 above took
place at the 2115th to 2120th and 2122nd to 2126th meetings, between 21 November
and 4 December.

10. In connexion with item 23, the Fourth Committee adopted eight draft resolutions
and three draft consensuses concerning the following Territories:

I.

11.

Ill.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

Niue

Gibraltar

Seychelles

Gilbert and Ellice Islands

Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and
Caicos Islands and the United States Virgin Islands

Cocos (Keeling) Islands (consensus)

Tokelau Islands (consensus)

Brunei (consensus)

A~erican Samoa, Guam, New Hebrides, Pitcairn, St. Helena and the
Solomon Islands

Comoro Archipelago

Spanish Sahara

An account of the COIT~ittee's consideration of the draft resolutions and the draft
consensuses is given in sections I to XI below.

11. At its 2126th meeting, on 4 December, the Fourth Com~ittee took a decision
concerning the Falkland.Islands (Malvinas), as reflected in paragr.aph 39 below.

12. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee took decisions concerning the
questions of Belize; French Somaliland; and Antigua, Dominica, St. Kitts-Nevis-
Anguilla, St. Lucia and St. Vincent, as reflected in paragraph 39 below. In taking
the decisions, the Fourth Committee noted that, SUbject to. any directives which the
General Assembly might give in that connexion, the Special Committee had decided to
~ive consideration to those Territories at its next session.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 5

1. NIUE

13. At the 2119th meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Ethiopia
introduced a draft resolution concerning Niue (A/c.4/L.I071), which was finally
sponsored by the following Member States: Australia, Central African Republic,
Denmark, Ethiopia, Fi,ji, Ghana, India, Indonesia. Iran, Ivory Coast. Japan, Kenya,
Mada~ascar. Mali. Netherlands. Niger. Nigeria. Peru. Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Sudan, Sweden, Toga , Trinidad- ,and Tobago, Tunisia , United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzan1~upperVolta. Vene~a and Zambia.

14. At the 212lst meeting, on 28 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/L.I071 without objection (see para. 37 below. draft resolution I).

II. GIBRALTAR

15. At the 2126th meeting, on 4 December, the representative of Argentina and
El Salvador introduced a draft resolution concerning Gibraltar (A/c.4/L.I078), which
was finally sponsored by the following Member States: Argentina. Bolivia, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador. Guatemala.
Ni.caragua , Panama. Paraguay. Syrian Arab Republic, Uru~uay and Venezuela.

16. At its 2127th meeting. on 5 December, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.4/L.I078 without objection (see para. 37 below, draft
resolution II).

111. SEYCHELLES

17. At the 2127th meeting, on 5 December, the representatives of Sierra Leone and
the United Republic of Tanzania introduced a draft resolution concerning the
Seychelles (A/c.4/L.I079). which was finally sponsored by the following Member
States: Australia. Central African Republic, Chile, Ethiopia. Ghana, Ivory Coast,
Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Mauritius, Senegal, Sierra Leone. Somalia, Syrian Arab
Republic, UnitedArab Emirates, United Republic of Camcr-oon , United Republic of
Tanzania and Upper Volta.

18. At the 2128th meeting, on 6 December. following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly concerning the administrative and financial implications of the
recommendation contained therein. the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c.4/L.1079 without objection (see para. 37 below, draft resolution 111).

IV. GILBERT AND ELLICE ISLANDS

19. At the 2127th meeting, on 5 December. the representatives of Sierra Leone and
India introduced a draft resolution concerning the Gilbert and Ellice Islands
(A/c.4/L.I08o). which was finally sponsored by the following Member States:

I ...



A!9748
English
Page 6

Ethiopia, Fiji, India, Kenya, Liberia, Malaysia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia,
Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Emirates and United Republic of Tanzania.

20. At the 2128th meeting, on 6 December, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly concerning the administrative and financial implications of the
recoITill~ndation contained therein, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution
A!c.4!L.I080 without objection (see para. 37 below, draft resolution IV).

V. BERMUDA, BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS, CAYMAN ISLANDS
MONTSERRAT, TURKS lL~D CAICOS ISLANDS AND THE
UNUED s'rAl'ES VIHGIE ISLANDS

21. At the 2127th meeting, on 5 December, the representatives of Venezuela and
Trinidad and 'I'obago introduced a draft resolution concerning the 'llerritories
listed above (A!c.4!L.I084), which was finally sponsored by the following Member
States: Ethiopia, Fiji, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Mali, Mexico, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Trinidad and Toba~o~ited Republic of Tanza~Upper Volta and Venezuela.

22. At its 2128th meeting, on 6 December, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly concerning the administrative and financial implications. of the
recommendation contained therein, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution
A!c.4!L.l084 by 93 votes to none, with 14 abstentions (see para. 37 below, draft
resolution V).

VI. COCOS (KEELING) ISLANDS

23. At the 2l27th meeting, on 5 December, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning the Cocos (Keeling) Islands (A!9623!Add.5 (Part 11), chap. XX,
para. 11) which the Special Committee had submitted to the General Assembly for
consideration.

24. At its 2128th meeting, on 6 December, f'oLl.ow.i.ng a statement by the Committee
Secretary under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the
Fourth Committee adopted without objection the draft consensus (A!9623!Add.5
(Part 11, chap. XX, para. 11) submitted by the Special Committee (see para. 38
below, draft consensus I).

VII. TOKELAU ISLANDS

25. At the 2l27th meeting, on 5 December, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning the Tokelau Islands (A!c.4!L.1086).

26. At its 2l28th meeting, on 6 December, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General

! ...



A/9748
English
Page 7

Assembly concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the
Fourth Committee adopted draft consensus A/C.4/L.I086 without objection (see
para. 38 below, draft consensus 11).

VIII. BRUNEI

27. At the 2127th meeting, on 5 December, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning Brunei (A/c.4/L.I087).

28. At its 2128th meeting, on 6 December, the Fourth Co~~ittee adopted draft
consensus A/c.4/L.I087 without objection (see para. 38 below, draft consensus Ill).

IX. M~RICAN SA/10A, GUAll, NEW HEBRIDES, PITCAIRN,
ST. HELiT!', HD THE SOLOEON ISLANDS

29. At the 2128th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Fiji introduced
a draft resolution concerning the Territories listed above (A/c.4/L.I085), which
was finally sponsored by the following Member States: Fij i, Ghana, Kenya,
Malaysia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Somalia and United Reptiblic of Tanzania. In his
statement, the representative of Fiji submitted, on behalf of the sponsors, an
oral revision to the text of the draft resolution by which, at the end of the
fourth preambular paragraph, the words "including those relating to the Solomon
Islands and New Hebrides," were added.

30. At the 2129th meeting, on 9 December, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly concerning the administrative and financial implications of the
recommendation contained therein, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c.4/L.I085, as orally revised, by 79 votes to 1, with 18 abstentions (see
para. 37 below, draft resolution VI).

X. COMORO ARCHIPELAGO

31. At the 2129th meeting, on 9 December, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning the Comoro Archipelago (A/c.4/L.I088), submitted by the
following Member States: Egypt, Ethiopia, Madagascar, Mauritius, Sierra Leone,
United Republic of Camerco~ and United Republic of Tanzania. ----

32. At the 213lst meeting, on 11 December, the representatives of the United
Republic of Tanzania and Madagascar, on behalf of the sponsors, now joined by
AIReria~ Guinea, Mali, Nigeria and Zambia, introduced a revised draft resolution
(Alc.4/L.1088/Rev.l), by whioh:

(al The second preambular paragraph, Which read:

"Having heard the statement of the administering Power,"

was replaced by the following paragraph:

'~Having heard the statement of the administering Power, as well as that



Aln48
English
Page 8

of the representative of the Government of the Comoro Archipelago, to the
effect that a popular consultation will be held in the Territory on
22 December 1974,";

(b) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the phrase "Noting with regret the
continued refusal of the administering Power to participate .•. " was replaced by
the phrase "Noting with regret that the administering Power did not
participate ... ";

(c) In operative paragraph 6, the phrase "to carry out these measures
immediately ,.," was replaced by the phrase "to carry out these measures as soon as
possible •.• 11.

33. At the same meeting, following a statement by the Secretary of the Committee
under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly
concerning the administrative and financial im~lications of the recommendation
contained therein, the Fourth Committee adopted revised draft·resolution
A/c.4/L.1088/Rev,l without objection (see para, 37 below, draft resolution VII).

XI. SPANISH SAHARA

34. At the 2130th meeting, on 10 December, the representatives of the Upper Volta,
the Syrian Arab Republic and Iraq introduced a draft resolution concerning the
Spanish Sahara (A/C,4/L,l090 and Corr,l), which was finally sponsored by the
following Member States: Algeria, Bahrain, Bur-undi , Chad, Democratic Yemen, Egypt,
Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia,
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, ~itius, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar,
Rwanda, Saud~abia, Sene~al, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia,
Uganda,. United Arab Emirates, Upper Volta and Yemen.

35. At the same meeting, the Legal Counsel of the United Nations made a statement.

36. At its 2l31st meeting, on 11 December, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly concerning the administrative and financial implications of the
recommendation contained therein, the Fourth Committee adopted draft reSOlution
A/C,4/L,1090 and Corr,l by a roll-call vote of 81 to none, with 43 abstentions
(see para. 37 below, draft resolution VIII). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil,
BUlgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
CzechoslOVakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, France, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan,
Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia~
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda~ Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,

I ...



A/9748
English
Page 9

Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper
Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

Against: None

Abstaining: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium,
Bolivia, Botswana, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark,
Dominican Repubic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, Germany
(Federal Republic of), Greece, Grenada, Honduras, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Paraguay, Peru,
Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 10

RECmll1ENDATIONS OF ~'HE FOURTH COI'li~ITTEE

37. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Question of Niue

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Niue,

Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 1/

Having heard the statement of the representative of the Government of Niue, ~/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalling also itE resolution 3155 (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973, by which it,
inter alia, noted with approval that the Government and people of Niue were
resolved to achieve self-government in 1974, welcomed the invitation extended to
the United Nations by the Government of New Zealand to observe the act of self-
determination in Niue and requested the Special Committee, in consultation ,nth
the administering Power and the Government of Niue, to appoint a special mission
to Niue in 1974 for the purpose of observing the proceedings relating to the act
of self-determination by the people of Niue,

Having considered. the report of the United Nations special mission dispatched
to Niue in August 1974 pursuant to resolution 3155 (XXVIII), L! and having heard
the statement of the Ch~irman of the Special Mission, i/

3/ A/9623/Add.5 (Part V), chap. XXII.

~/ See A/c.4/SR.2119

2/ A/9623/Add.5 (Part V), chap. XXII, annex I.
if A/c.4/SR.2119

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 11

1. Approves the chapter of the. report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Niue;

2. Notes with satisfaction the findings and conclusions of the special
mission, 11 in particular its conclusion that the arrangements for the conduct of
the referendum in Niue were such as to ensure that the people exercised their
right of self-determination freely, in circumstances which guaranteed the secrecy
of the ballot, and with full information regarding the issues involved;

3. Expresses its appreciation to the Government of New Zealand, ,as the
administering Power, and the Government of Niue for the co-operation and assistance
extended to the special mission;

4. Takes note that the people of Niue voted, by a sUbstantial majority, for
self-government in free association with New Zealand On the basis of the
Constitution and the Niue Constitution Act, 1974;

5. Considers that in so doing the people of Niue have freely expressed
their wishes and have exercised their right to self-determination in accordance
with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

6. Further considers that, in view of the entry into force of the Niue
Constitution Act, 1974, and the attainment by the Territory of self-government in
free association with New Zealand, the transmission of information in respect of
Niue under Article 73 ~ of the Charter is no longer necessary;

7. Notes with appreciation the cow~itment entered into by the Govermnent of
New Zealand to ~ontinue to furnish economie and administrative assistance to Niue
after the attainment of self-govermnent·

8. Expresses the hope that the United Nations Development Programme and the
specialized agencies and other instituticns associated with the United Nations will
likewise endeavour to contribute in every way possible to the development and
strengthening of the economy of Niue.

11 A/9623/Add.5 (Part V), chap. XXII, annex I, paras. 142-147.
I . . .



A/9748
English
Page 12

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Question of Gibraltar

The General ftssembly,

Having considered the question of Gibraltar,

Having studied the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples concerning Gibraltar, §j

Having heard the relevant statements made in the Fourth Committee, '2./

1. Regrets that the negotiations referred to in paragraph 2 below have not
yet been effectively started;

2. Urges the Governments of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and of Spain to begin without delay the negotiations envisaged
under the terms of the consensus adopted by the General Assembly on
ltL December 1973; 101

3. Requests the two Governments to inform the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to COlonial Countries and Peoples and the General Assembly at its
thirtieth session of the outcome of their negotiations.

~ A/9623/Add.4 (Part 11), chap. XIII.

21 See A/C.4/sR.2117 and 2124.
101 Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-eighth Session,

Supplement No. 30 (A/9030), p. Ill.
I ...



A/9748
English
Page 13

DRAFT RESOLUTION 111

Question of the Seychelles

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the Seychelles,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 11/

Having heard the statement of the administering Power, 12/- -
Recalling the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial

Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,
and the programme of action for the full implementation of the Declaration,
contained in its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, as well as all other
resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the Territory,

Noting the expressed desire of the Government of the SeyChelles that the
Territory should attain independence as soon as possible and the continued
readiness of the administering Power to grant independence to the people of the
Seychelles in accordance with their wishes,

Further noting that a constitutional conference with the full participation
of both political parties in the Territory is to be held shortly in order to
determine the modalities whereby the Seychelles is to proceed "to independence,

Bearing in mind the statement made by the Chief Minister of the Government of
the Seychelles to the effect that every effort will be made to work as closely as
possible with the opposition towards the task of national unification, 13/

Mindful also of the position of the Government of the Seychelles with regard
to the territorial integrity of the Seychelles,

11/ A/9623 (Part IV), chap. 111; A/9623/Add.4 (Part I), chap. X.

12/ See A/c.4/SR.2l16.

13/ See A/AC.I09/PV.974.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 14

1. Approves the chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Seychelles;

2. Notes with satisfaction the expressed wish of the people of the
Seychelles to achieve independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Inaependence to Colonial Countries and Peoples contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland to take all the necessary steps to facilitate the Territory's
accession to independence as soon as possible in accordance with the expressed
wish of the people of the Territory;

4. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom to continue to keep the
United Nations fully apprised of developments relating to the Seychelles;

5. Stresses the responsibility of the United Nations to render all possible
assistance to the people of the Seychelles in their efforts to achieve independence
and, to that end, invites the specialized agencies and the institutions associated
with the United Nations to work out concrete programmes of assistance to the
Seychelles;

6. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue its examination of the question, including the
dispatch, as appropriate and in consultation with the administering Power, of a
United Nations visiting mission to the Territory in connexion with the processes
leading to the Territory's accession to independence, and to report thereon to the
General Assembly a~ its thirtieth session.

/ ...



A/n48
English
Page 15

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Question of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 14/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of
action for the full implementation of the Declaration,

Recalling also its resolution 3156 (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973, by which it,
inter alia, requested the Special Committee to continue to give full consideration
to the question of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, including in particular the
dispatch of a visiting mission to the Territory,

Having heard the statements of the administering Power relating to
developments in the Territory, !2J

Having examined the report of the United Nations Visiting Mission dispatched
to the Territory in August/September 1974, 16/ ,at the invitation of the Government
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the administering
Power, and having heard the statement of the Chairman of the Visiting Mission, 17/

Bearing in mind the observation of the Visiting l1ission relating to the'
results of the referendum, 18/

Welcoming the positive decision of the administering Power to participate in
the relevant work of the Special Committee and to permit United Nations visiting
missions access to the Territories under its administration and expressing the
hope that the close co-operation thus established will be further strengthened so
as to accelerate the process of decolonization towards the full and speedy
implementation of the Declaration with respect to these Territories,

14/ A/9623 (Part IV), chap. Ill; and A/9623/Add.5 (Parts 111 and IV),
chap. XXI.

15/ A/AC.I09/PV.987 and A/c.4/SR.2116.

16/ A/9623/Add.5 (Part IV), chap. XXI, anneX I.

17/ A/c.4/SR.2116.

18/ A/9623/Add.5 (P&rt IV), chap. XXI, anneX I, para. 303.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 16

1. Approves the chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Gilbert and Ellice
Islands; 19/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the Gilbert and Ellice
Islands to self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

3. Expresses its appreciation to the Government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and to the Government of the Gilbert and Ellice
Islands for the co-operation and assistance extended to the Visiting Mission;

4.
expedite
relevant

Requests the administering Power to take all necessary measures to
the process of decolonization in the Territory in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and of the Declaration;

5. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations system in
the development and strengthening of the economy of the Territory;

6. Requests the Special Committee to continue to give full consideration
to this question in the light of the findings of the Visiting Mission, including
the possible dispatch of a further visiting mission in consultation with the
administering Power, and to report to the General. Assembly at its thirtieth session
on the implementation of the present resolution.

19/ A/9623 (Part IV), chap. Ill; and A/9623!Add.5 (Parts III and IV),
chap. XXI.

/ ...



•

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Question of Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman
Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands and

the United States Virgin Islands

The General Assembly,

A/9748
English
Page 17

Having considered the question of Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman
Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands and the United States Virgin
Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
On the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 20/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as
well as all other resolutions relating to the Territories listed above, in
particular resolution 3157 (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973,

Taking into account the statements of the administering Powers relating to
the Territories listed above, and noting in particular the expressed readiness of
the Government of the lJnited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to
grant independence to the peoples of those Territories under its administration,
in accordance with their wishes, 21/

Noting with deep concern the slow progress in the full implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the above-mentioned Territories, notwithstanding the
encouraging but limited political and constitutional development which has
reoently taken place in some of the Territories,

Noting with satisfaction the continued active participation of the United
States of America in the relevant work of the Special Committee, but deploring
the negative attitude of that Government with respect to receiving a United
Nations visiting mission in the Territory concerned,

Welcoming the positive decision of the United Kingdom to participate in the
relevant work of the Special Committee and to permit United Nations visiting
missions access to the Territories under its administration, as appropriate,

Concerned that the economies of the Territories referred to above are based
mainly on fluctuating activities such as tourism, land sales and tax haven
arrangements,

20/ A/9623 (Part IV), chap. 111; and A/9623/Add.6 (Part I), chaps. XXIII-XXV.

21/ A/AC.I09/SC.3/SR.198-200 and 202; A/c.4/SR.2116.

/ ...



A/9T48
English
Page 18

Bearing in mind the constructive results achieved as a conseQuence of
previous visiting missions to colonial Territories, including those dispatched by
the Special Committee in 1974 to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Gilbert and
Ellice Islands and Niue, 221 and reiterating its conviction that the dispatch of
visiting missions to the Territories dealt with in the present resolution is
indispensable for securing adeQuate and first-hand information in regard to the
political, economic and social conditions in the Territories and to the views,
wishes and aspirations of the peoples therein,

Mindful that those Territories reQuire the continued attention and
assistance of the United Nations in the achievement by their peoples of the
objectives embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of the Territories,

1. Approves the chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Territories of
Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos
Islands and the United States Virgin Islands; 231

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of those Territories to
self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

3. Reaffirms its conviction that the Questions of territorial size,
geographical isolation and limited resources should in no way delay the
implementation of the Declaration with respect to the Territories concerned;

4. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to take all the necessa~y
steps, without further delay, to ensure the full and speedy attainment of the
goals set forth in the Declaration with respect to the Territories and, in that
regard, to establish, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of
the people, a specific time··table for the free exercise by the peoples of the
Territories of their right to self-determination and independence;

5. Calls upon the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power concerned, to reconsider its attitude towards receiving a
United Nations visiting mission in the Territory concerned;

6. Calls upon the administering Powers to take all possible steps to
diversify the economies of the Territories listed above;

7. yrges the administering Powers to safeguard the inalienable right of the

221 A/96231Add. 5 (Parts II-.V).

~l! A/9623/Add.6 (Part I), chaps. XXIII-XXV.

I ...



A/9748
English
Page 19

peoples of those Territories to the enjoyment of their natural resources by taking
effective measures which guarantee the rights of the peoples to own and dispose of
those natural resources and to establish and maintain control of their future
development;

8. Requests the organizations of the United Nations system to assist in
accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of those Territories;

9. Invites the Secretary-General, having regard to the mandate entrusted to
him in General Assembly resolution of December 1914, to pay
particular regard to the ~eed to intensify widespread dissemination of information
on the process of decolonization in respect of the Territories listed above and,
in particular, to consider intensifying the activities of the information centres
concerned;

10. Reguests the Special Committee to continue to give full consideration to
this question, including in particular the dispatch of visiting missions to those
Territories, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session on the
implementation of the present resolution.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 20

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Question of American Samoa, Guam, New Hebrides, Pitcairn,
St. Heleha and the Solcmon Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of American Samoa, Guam, New Hebrides,
Pitcairn, St. Helena and the Solomon Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 24/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of action
for the full implementation of the Declaration, as well as all other resolutions
relating to the Territories listed above, in particular resolution 3156 (XXVIII)
of 14 December 1973,

Taking into account the statements of the administering Powers relating to
developments in the above-mentioned Territories, including those relating to the
Solomon Islands and New Hebrides, 25/

Noting with deep concern the slow progress in the full implementation of the
Declaration with respect to those Territories, notwithstanding the encouraging but
limited political and constitutional development which has recently taken place in
some of the Territories,

Noting with satisfaction the continued active participation of the United
Soates of America in the work of the Special Committee relating to the Territories
concerned and welcoming the positive decision of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland to take part in the relevant work of the Special
Committee and to permit United Nations visiting missions access to the Territories
under its administration, as appropriate.

Deploring the con~~nued refusal of the Government of France, in contravention
of ohe provisions of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, to co-operate
with the Special Committee in its examination of the Territory of the New Hebrides,

Deeply deploring the policy_of those administering Powers which continue to
maintain military bases in some of the Territories under their administration, in
contravention of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly,

24/ A/9623 (part IV), chap. Ill; A/9623/Add.4 (part I), chap. X; A/9623/Add.5
(parts I, III and IV), chaps. XV, XVII and XXI.

25/ A/AC.I09/SC.3/SR.207-210 and 214; A/AC.I09/PV.976; and A/C.4/SR.2116.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 2l

Concerned that the economies of the Territories listed above are based mainly
on either single cash products, such as copra or phosphates, or on military
activities,

Deploring also the negative attitude of the administering Powers concerned
with respect to the'receiving of United Nations visiting missions in the Territories
under their administration,

Bearing in mind the constructive results achieved as a consequence of previous
visiting missions to colonial Territories, including those dispatched by the Special
Committee in 1974 to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Gilbert and Ellice Islands
and Niue, 26/ and reiterating its conviction that the dispatch of visiting missions
to the Territories dealt with in the present resolution is indispensable for
securing adequate and first-hand information in regard to the political, economic
and social conditions in the Territories and to the views, wishes and aspirations
of the peoples therein,

Deeply concerned at the testing of nuclear weapons which continued to take
place in 1974 in the South Pacific, despite the strong opposition to such testing
as evidenced in resolution 3156 (XXVIII) and in the relevant chapters of the report
of the Special Committee and as expressed by the peoples of the South Pacific,
including those of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in the region,

Mindful that the Territories listed above require the continued attention and
assistance of the United Nations in the achievement by their peoples of the
objectives embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and the
economic conditions of the Territories,

1. Approves the chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Territories of
American Samoa, Guam, New Hebrides, Pitcairn, St. Helena and the Solomon
Islands; 27/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of those Territories to
self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

3. Reaffirms its conviction that the questions of territorial size,
geographical isolation and limited resources should in no way delay the
implementation of the Declaration with respect to the Territories concerned;

26/ A/9623/Add.5 (parts II-V).

27/ A/9623 (part IV), chap. Ill; A/9623/Add.4 (part I), chap. X; A/9623/Add.5
(parts I, III and IV), chaps. XV, XVII and XXI.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 22

4. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to take all the necessary
steps, without further delay, to ensure the full and speedy attainment of the goals
set forth in the Declaration with respect to the Territories and, in that regard,
to establish, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of the people,
a specific time-table for the free exercise by the peoples of the Territories of
their right to self-determination and independence;

5. Strongly deprecates any attempt aimed at the partial or total disruption
of the national unity and territorial integrity of colonial Territories and the
establishment of military bases and installations in those Territories as being
incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
and of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

6. Calls upon the Governments of France and the United States of America, as
the administering Powers concerned, to reconsider their attitude towards receiving
United Nations visiting missions and to permit access by such missions to
Territories under their administration;

7. Calls upon the Government of France, as an administering Power, to
participate in the relevant proceedings of the Special Committee concerning the
Territory of the New Hebrides and, in particular, to report to the Special
Committee on the implementation of the present resolution;

8. Calls upon the administering Powers concerned to take all possible
measures to diversify the economies of the Territories listed above;

9. Urges the administering Powers to safeguard the inalienable right of the
peoples of those Territories to the enjoyment of their natural resources by taking
effective measures which guarantee the rights of the peoples to own and dispose of
those natural resources and to establish and maintain control of their future
development;

10. Reiterates its deep concern at the testing of nuclear weapons, which
continued to take place in 1974 in the South Pacific despite the strong opposition
to such testing as evidenced in resolution 3156 (XXVIII), in the relevant chapters
of the report of the Special Committee, and as expressed by the peoples of the
South Pacific, including those of the Non-Self-Governing Territories in the region;

11. Requests the organizations of the United Nations system to assist in
accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of the Territories listed
above;

12. Invites the Secretary-General, having regard to the mandate entrusted to
him in General Assembly resolution (XXIX) of December 1974, to pay
particular regard to the need to intensify widespread dissemination of information
on the process of decolonization in respect of the Territories listed above and, in
particular, to consider intensifying the activities of the information centres
concerned;

13. Requests the Special Committee to continue to give full consideration to
this question, including in partiCUlar the dispatch of visiting missions to the
Territories, as appropriate, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth
session on the implementation of the present resolution.

/ ...



A/9T48
English
Page 23

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Question of the Comoro Archi~ela~o

The General Assembly,
•
Havin~ considered the question of the Comoro Archipelago,

Having heard the statement of the administering Power 28/ as well as that of
the representative of the Government of the Comoro Archipelago 29/ to the effect
that a popular consultation will be held in the Territory on 22])ecember 1974,

Recallin~ its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration On the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of action
for the full implementation of the Declaration, as well as resolution 3161 (XXVIII)
of 14 December 1973 on this question,

Noting that, in pursuance of the Joint Declaration on the Accession to
Independence of the Comoro Archipelago, containing the text of an agreement reached
on 15 June 1973 between the Minister for Overseas Departm~nts and Territories of
the Government of France and the President of the Government Council of the Comoro
Archipelago, 30/ a popular consultation on independence is to take place on
22 December 1974 and bearing in mind the statement made on 26 August 1974 by the
Government of France, according to which the consultation shall be organized on
an "archipelago-wide" basis, 31/

Notin~ with regret that the administering Power did not participate in the
related work of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples,

Mindful of the responsibility of the United Nations to render all help to
the people of the Comoro Archipelago in their efforts freely to decide their own
future,

Bearing in mind the statement by the representative of France that the French
Government has affirmed "the readiness of the Comoro Archipelago for independence"
and "its intention to respond faithfully to the aspirations" of the Comorian people,

28/ A/C.4/SR.2124.

29/ A/c.4/SR.2128.

30/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-eighth Session,
Supplement No. 23 (A/9023/Rev.l), chap. XI, annex, appendix 11.

31/ A/9623/Add.4 (part 11), chap. XI, annex, para. 32.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 24

and has stated that the Comorian Government can request independence for the
Territory at any time, 32/

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the Comoro Archipelago
to self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

2. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the question; 33/

3. Reaffirms the unity and territorial integrity of the Comoro Archipelago;

4. Notes the express desire and readiness of the Comorian people to accede
to independence in friendship and co-operation with Fr-ance; 34/

5. Requests the Government of France, as the administering Power, to ensure
that the unity and territorial integrity of t·he Comoro Archipelago are preserved;

6. Calls upon the administering Power to take all necessary measures to
ensure the full and speedy attainment of freedom and independence by the people
of the Territory in accordance with the objectives of the Declaration and in
conformity with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and,
in particular, to carry out these measures as soon as possible after the popular
consultation to be held on 22 December 1974;

7. Requests all States to render the necessary assistance to the people of
the Territory in their efforts to achieve the objectives of the Declaration;

8. Requests the Special Committee to continue its examination of the
question, including the dispatch, as appropriate and in consultation with the
administering Power, of a United Nations visiting mission to the Territory, and to
report thereon to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session;

9. Urges the administering Power to co-operate with the Special Committee
rn the discharge of the task referred to in paragraph 8 above.

32/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-eighth Session, Fourth
Committee, 2064th meeting, paras. 22 and 27.

33/ A/9623/Add.4 (part 11), chap. XI.

34/ Official Records of the General Assembly, ~wenty-eighth Session, Fourth
Committee, 2065th meeting; ibid., Supplement No. 23 (A/9023/Rev.l), chap. XI,
annex, appendix I.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 25

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Question of Spanish Sahara

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing tbe
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalling also its resolutions 2072 (XX) of 16 December 1965, 2229 (XXI) of
20 December 1966, 2354 (XXII) of 19 December 1967, 2428 (XXIII) of
18 December 1968, 2591 (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, 2711 (XXV) of 14 December 1970,
2983 (XXVII) of 14 December 1972 and 3162 (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973,

Reaffirming the right to self-determination of the population of the Spanish
Sahara in accordance with its resolution 1514 (XV),

Considering that the persistence of a colonial situation in Western Sahara
jeopardizes stability and harmony in the north-west African region,

Taking into account the statements made in the General Assembly on
30 September and 2 October 1974 by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the
Kingdom of Morocco 35/ and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, 36/

Taking note of the statements made in the Fourth Committee by the
representatives of ~jorocco 37/ and Mauritania, 38/ in which the two countries
acknowledged that they were1joth interested in the future of the Territory,

~aving heard the statements by the representative of the People's Democratic
Republic of Algeria, 39/

Having heard the statements by the representative of Spain, 40/

Noting that during the discussion a legal controversy arose over the status
of the said Territory at the time of its colonization by Spain,

Considering, therefore, that for future discussion it is highly desirable tha~
the General Assembly seek an advisory opinion on some important legal aspects of
the problem during its thirtieth session,

D.-/ pJPV. 2249.
36/ A/PV.2251-

37/ A/c.4/SR.2117, 2125 and 2130.

38/ A/c.4/SR.2117 and 2130.

39/ A/PV.2265 and A/c.4/SR.2125.

40/ A/PV.2253: A/c.4/SR.2117, 2125, 2126 and 2130.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 26

Bearin~ in mind Article 96 of the Charter of the United Nations and
Article 66 of the Statute of the International Court of Justice,

1. Decides to seek an advisory opinion from the International Court of
.Ius t i.c e , >rlthout prejudice to the application of the principles embod.ied in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), at an early date on the follo>ring questions:

;'1. Vias Vlestern Sahara (Rlo de ero and Sakiet El Hamr-e.) res nullius at
the time of colonization by Spain?"

If the ans>rer to the first question is in the negative,

;'11. Wh"t legal ties existed bet>reen this Territory and both the Kingdom of
Morocco and Mauritania 3.8 a whoLe ?"

2. Calls upon Spain, in its capacity as administering Power in particular,
as well as Morocco and Mauritania, in their capacity as interested parties, to
submit to the International Court of Justice all such information and document
"s may be needed to clarifY these questions;

30 Invites urrrcnt;hv the :;.dwinistcrin;o: Power- to pos t.porie the referendum it
had corrtertp.Lrrted in l,Testern SClhf\rr. until the Gcnera.L Assembly decides on the
policy to be followed in order to accelerate the decolonization process in the
Territory, in accordance with resolution 1514 (XV), in the best possible conditions,
in the light of t.he r-dv i sory opinion given by the International Court of ,Justice·

4. Reiterates its invitation to all States to observe the resolutions of
the General Assembly regardinp the activities of foreign, economic and financial
interests in the Territory and to abstain from contributing by their investments
or immigration policy to the maintenance of a colonial situation in the Territory;

5. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Gr&~ting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to keep the situation in the Territory under view,
including the sending of a visiting mission to the Territory, and to report to
the General Assembly at its thirtieth session.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 27

38. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft consensuses:

DRAFT CONSENSUS I

Question of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands

The General Assembly, having examined the chapter of the report of the
Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
relating to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands 41/ and having heard the statement of the
administering Power on the implementation-of the relevant provisions of the Charter
of the United Nations and the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960, with regard to the Territory, 42/ notes with satisfaction the
constructive work accomplished during the year bY-the Special Committee with the
close co-operation of the administering Power, in particular the dispatch, in·
August 1974, of a United Nations Visiting Mission to the Territory. The General
Assembly expresses appreciation to the administering Power for its active
particupation in the relevant work of the Special Committee and its continued
preparedness to receive a further visiting mission to the Territory, as appropriate.
The General Assembly craws the attention of the administering Power to the
conclusions and recommendations of the Visiting Mission, 43/ bearing in mind the
need to ensure the free expression by the people of the T;rritory of their true
aspirations concerning their future status, as well as the full exercise by them
of their fundamental rights, towards the achievement of the goals set forth in
the Charter and the Declaration. The General Assembly requests the Special
Committee, in continued co-operation with the administering Power, to seek the best
ways and means of implementing the Declaration with respect to the Territory and
to report thereon to the Assembly at its thirtieth session.

41/ A/9623/Add.5 (Part rr) , chap -, XX.

42/ A/c.4/SR.2124.

43/ A/9623/Add.5 (Part 11), chap. XX, annex, paras. 199-217.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 28

DRAFT CONSENSUS 11

Question of the Tokelau Islands

The General Assembly, having examined the chapter of the report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration
On the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the
question of the Tokelau Islands, under the administration of New Zealand, 44/ and
having heard the statement of the representative of the administering Power on the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,
with regard to that Territory, 45/ notes with satisfaction the continued active
participation of the representative of the Government of New Zealand in the
related work of the Special Committee in 1974. The General Assembly also notes
the continued readiness of the administering Power to receive a visiting mission
in the Tokelau Islands in order to obtain first-hand information on conditions in
the Territory and on the wishes and aspirations of its people. The assistance
provided to the Tokelau Islands by specialized agencies of the United Nations, such
as the World Health Organization, is noted with appreciation. The General Assembly
considers the provision of such assistance as an important means of demonstrating
the continuing interest of the international community in the Territory. The
General Assembly requests the Special Committee, in consultation with the
administering Power, to continue to seek the best ways and means for the
implementation of the Declaration with respect to the Tokelau Islands, including
the dispatch of a visiting mission as appropriate, and to report thereon to the
General Assembly at its thirtieth session.

44/ A/9623/Add.5 (Part I), chap XVI.

45/ A/C.4/SR.2l22.

/ ...



A/9748
English
Page 29

DRAFT CONSmSUS III

Question of Brunei

The General Assembly, having examined the relevant chapter of the report of
the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 46/
and having noted the decision of the Special Committee to request its Chairman
to continue consultations with the administering Power with a view to the
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and
other relevant resolutions of the Assembly and the Special Committee with respect
to the Territory, 47/ decides to request the Special Committee to continue to
consider this question and to report thereon to the Assembly at its thirtieth
session.

46/ A/9623/Add.5 (Part I), chap. XIX.

47/ Ibid., para. 5.

/ ...



A/9T48
English
Page 30

39. Finally, the Fourth Cow~ittee recommends to the General Assembly the
adoption of the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

The General Assembly, in noting the related communications from the Governments
of Argentina 48/ and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 49/
requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
to continue to keep the question of the Fdlkland Islands (Malvinas) under review
in the discharge of the mandate entrusted to ic at its next session.

DRAFT DECISION 11

The General Assembly decides to postpone to its thirtieth session consideration
of the questions of Belize, of French Somaliland, and of Antigua, Dominica,
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia and St. Vincent.

48/ A/9824.

49/ A/98l4.


