
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9826 ~~-1•/ldd, 1 
1 November 1974 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda i tern 42 

UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT 

Report of the Second Committee (Part I) 

Rapporteur: Mr. Lu1s LASCARRO (Colombia) 

1. The General Assembly, at its 2237th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, 
allocated to the Second Committee agenda item 42, entitled "United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development: report of the Trade and Development Board". 

2. The Second Committee considered this item at its 1607th to 1613th meetings, 
from 15 to 17 and 21 to 22 October, and at its 1619th and 1620th meetings, on 
29 and 30 October. At the 1619th meeting, the Committee submitted a separate 
report on those meetings. An account of the discussions of the Committee is 
contained in the relevant summary records. An account of the Committee's discussion 
at later meetings will be given in part II of the report (A/9826/Add.l). 

3. At its 1607th meeting, on 15 October, the Committee heard an introductory 
statement by the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development. 

4. The Committee had before it the following documents: 

(a) Report of the Trade and Development Board on the first part of its 
fourteenth session; !/ 

(b) Report of the Economic and Social Council on the work of its resumed 
fifty-seventh session; gj 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General of UNCTAD on the findings of his study 
on the indexation of prices (TD/B/503 and Suppl. 1 and Suppl. 1/Add.l). 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-nin .h Session ... 
Supplement No. 15 (A/9615). 

gj Ibid., Supplement No. 3 A (A/9603/Add.l), part I. 

74-29420 I . .. 



A/9826 
English 
Page 2 

5. At the 1619th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of the Upper Volta, 
on behalf of the delegations of Afghanistan, Burundi, Dahomey, Ethiopia, Lesotho, 
Mali, Nepal, Rwanda, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, the United 
Republic of Tanzania, the Upper Volta, Yugoslavia and Zaire, introduced a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l353) entitled "Special measures in favour of the least 
developed among the developing countries". 

6. At the l620th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of the Upper Volta, 
on behalf of the sponsors, orally revised operative paragraph 1 of the draft 
resolution by replacing the words "setting up" by the word "convening". 

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution, as orally 
revised, by 112 votes to none, with 1 abstention {see para. 15 below, draft 
resolution I). 

B. At the l619th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of the Upper Volta, 
on behalf of the delegations of Algeria, Burundi, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Democratic Yemen, Gabon, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, the Libyan Arab:Republic, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Poland, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, the Upper Volta, Yemen and Yugoslavia, introduced a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l356) entitled "Report of the Trade and Development Board". 

9. At the same meeting, the. representathe of Mauritania moved the closure of 
the debate on the draft resolution. 

10. The Committee approved the closure of the debate by a recorded vote of 
53 to 28, with 33 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Botswana, Bulgaria, 
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Congo 
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Gabon, 
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab'Republic, 
Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Niger, 
Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan 
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia. 

Against: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, 
Denmark, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, 
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, 
Norway, Paraguay, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, 
Uruguay, Zaire • 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Burma, Central African Republic, Colombia, Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, 
Ethiopia, Indonesia, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer 
Republic, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Malawi, ~lalaysia, Mexico, Peru, 
Philippines, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, 
Turkey, Uganda, Venezuela, Zambia. 

I . .. 



A/9826 
English 
Page 3 

ll. At the same meeting, the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l356) was· adopted by a 
roll-call vote of 78 to 4, with 33 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft 
resolution II). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, 
Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany, 
Federal Republic of, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, 
Iceland, India, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Niger; Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, 
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Against: Chile, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Uruguay. 
~-

Abstenticns.1 Afghanistan, Argentina, Bhutan, Bolivia, Burma, Central African 
Republic, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Khmer Republic, 
Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Philippines, 
Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Thailand, Uganda, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United 
States of America, Venezuela, Zaire. 

12. At the l6l9th meeting, on 29 Cotober, the representative of Japan, on behalf 
of the delegations o:L Argentina, Brazil, Burundi, C.Jlombia, Egypt, Ethionia, 
Finland, ~' Indonesia, ~' Japan, Kenya, Lesotho, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, 
~' the Philippines, Sweden, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Bepublic of Tanzania, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia, introduced a draft resolution (AjC.2jL.l360) entitled 
"Fourth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development". 

13. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the 
administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution. 

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution AjC.2jL.l360 
without a vote (see para. 15 below, draft resolution III). 

j ... 



. A/9826 
English 
Page 4 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE 

15. The Second Committee recom~ends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Special measures in favour of the least developed among 
the developing countries 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Trade and Development Board 3/ on the 
progress made in the implementation of special measures in favour of the least 
developed among the developing countries, 

Noting Trade and Development Board decision 100 (XIII) of 8 September 1973 
on special measures in favour of the least developed among the developing 
countries, 

Noting further Economic and Social Council decision 30 (LVII) of 2 August 1974 
on special measures in favour of the least developed countries, 

Recalling resolution 62 (III) of 19 May 1972 of the United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development 4/ relating to special measures in favour of the least 
developed among the developing countries, 

Recalling further its resolution 3174 (XXVIII) of 17 December 1973 on special 
measures in favour of the least developed countries, 

Considering that the application of special measures in favour of the least 
developed countries in the field of trade policy has not been implemented and that 
the financial assistance to those countries is far below the optimum flow necessary 
to enable them to attain the growth rate contemplated in the International Strategy 
for the Second United Nations Development Decade, ::J 

l. Endorses decision 119 (XIV) of the Trade and Development Board of 
13 September 1974 convening an intergovernmental group to analyse and evaluate 
the progress achieved and to make suggestions for adequate means of overcoming the 
difficulties encountered in the implementation of general policy measures in 
favour of the least developed countries in accordance with the provisions of 
resolution 62 (III) of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development; 

3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
§upplement No. 15 (A/9615). · 

~/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
Third Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (united Nations publication, Sales 
No.: E.73.II.D.4), annex I.A. 

5/ General Assembly resolution 2626 (XXV). 

I ... 



A/9826 
English 
Page 5 

2. Urges Member States and organizations of the United Nations system to 
intensify ~rgently their efforts in favour of the least developed countries, 
including those in the field of trade; 

3. Requests the international financial institutions, in particular the 
International Development Association and the regional development banks, to 
allocate urgently additional resources to the least developed countries; 

4. Decides to consider at its thirtieth session the note by the Secretary-
General on the establishment of a special fund for the least developed countries. 6j 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

Report of the Trade and Development Board 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Trade and Development Board, 11 
Referring to Trade and Development Board resolution lll (XIV) of 12 September 

1974 and Economic and Social Council resolution 1873 (LVI) of 17 May 1974, 

Considering that the President of the third session of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, Mr. Clodomiro Almeyda, former Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Chile, has been imprisoned for already a year, 

Recalling that Mr. Almeyda placed his prestige and his knowledge at the 
service of the international community, particularly at the. third session of the 
Conference which was held at Santiago de Chile in 1972, 

Commissions the President of the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly 
of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the United Nations to request 
the Government of Chile to release immediately Mr. Clodomiro Abneyda, the President 
of the third session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. 

§./ E/5499. 
11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 

Supplement No. 15 (A/9615). 

; ... 



A/9826 
English 
Page 6 

DRAFT RESOLUTION III 

Fourth session of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964 and Trade and 
Development Board resolution 113 (XIV) of 13 September 1974, 

Bearing in mind the invitation of the Government of Kenya to hold the fourth 
session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at Nairobi, 

1. Accepts with appreciation the invitation of the Government of Kenya; 

2. Decides that the fourth session of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development will be held at Nairobi in May/June 1976 for a period not 
exceeding four weeks. 


