
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9886• AJd.,i 
29 November 1974 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 12 

REPORT OF THE ECONOI,!IC AND SOCIAL COutlCIL 

Report of the Second Committee (Part I) 

!_lapporteur: l'lr. Luis LASCARRO (Colombia) 

1. The General Assembly, at its 2237th plenary 1neeting on 21 September 1974, 
allocated to the Second Committee certain parts of agenda item 12, entitled 
"Report of the Economic and Social Council". The parts of the report allocated 
to the Second Committee were chapters II, III (sections A to D) , IV, VI 
(sections A to D and G) and VII (sections 1 to 3). 

2. The Second Collllllittee considered the item at its 1587th to 1598th and 160lst 
meetings, between 23 September and 8 October 1974, in connexion with its general 
debate. The Committee resumed its discussion of the item at its 1629th to lf3lst, 
1633rd and 1635th to 1638th meetings, on 12 to 15, 19, and 21 to 25 November. An 
account of the Committee's discussions is contained in the relevant summary 
records (A/C.2/SR.l507-1598, 1601, 1629-1631, 1633, 1635-1638). An account of 
its discussions at later meetings will be given in part II of the report 
(A/9886 I Add .1 l. 

3. The Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs made a statement 
at the 1587th meeting, on 23 September. 

4. In addition to the relevant sections of the report of the Economic and 
Social Council on the work of its fifty-sixth and fifty-seventh sessions !/ 
and the report of the Council on the work of its resumed fifty-seventh session, ~ 
the Committee had before it the following docwnents: 

!/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement I1o. 3 (A/9603). 

?_/ Ibid., Supplement No. 3A (A/9603/Add.l). 

74-33348 I ... 



A/9886 
English 
Page 2 

(a) Letter dated 26 l'larch 1974 from the Permanent Representative of 
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations 
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9588); 

(b) Letter dated 10 April 1974 from the Permanent Representative of 
the German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed 
to the Secretary-General ( A/9592); 

(c) Letter dated 1 May 1974 from the Permanent Representatives of 
France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and 
the United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/9599); 

(d) Letter dated 6 l~ay 1974 from the Permanent Representative of the 
Federal Republic of Germany to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/9633); 

(e) Note verbale dated 19 June 1974 from the Permanent Hiss ion of the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed 
to the Secretary-General (A/9648 and A/9649); 

(f) Letter dated 9 July 1974 from the Permanent Representative of the 
German Democratic Republic to the United !lations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/9656); 

(g) Letter dated 9 August 1974 from the Charge d'Affaires of the 
Permanent Mission ,of Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/9699); 

(h) Report of the Secretary-General on permanent sovereignty over 
natural resources (A/9716 and Corr.l); 

(i) Measures to improve the organization of the work of the Economic and 
Social Council; draft resolution proposed by the Council in resolution 
1622 (LI) and runendments thereto (A/C,2/289); 

(j) Texts of four draft resolutions on the study of the problems of raw 
materials and development submitted to the General Assembly at its 
sixth special session (A/C.2/L.l342); 

(k) Report of the Secretary-General on permanent sovereignty over natural 
resources (E/5425 and Corr.l and Add.l); 

(1) Report of the Secretary-General on special measures in favour of the 
least developed runong the developing countries (E/5467); 

(m) Report of the Committee on Science and Technology for Development on 
its second session (E/5473); 

I ... 



A/9886 
English 
Page 3 

(n) Note by the Secretary-General on special measures in favour of the 
least developed among the developing countries (E/5499); 

(o) Report of the Secretary-General on special measures related to the 
particular needs of the land-locked developing countries (E/5501); 

(p) Eote by the Secretary--General on tourism (E/5519); 

(q) Report of the vlorld Population Conference (E/5585 and Corr.l); 

(r) Heport of the ilorld Food Conference (E/55G7); 

(s) Report of the Secretary-General on the outflow of trained pers.onnel 
from developing to devel~ped countries (E/C.B/21); 

(t) Letter dated 1 October. 1974 from the Director-General of the Horld 
Intellectual Property Organization addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/9813); 

(u) Letter dated 9 October 1974 from the Permanent Representative of 
Chile to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/C.2/291). 

5. The Committee also considered a number of draft resolutions, as set forth 
in sections I to IV belmr. 

I 

6. At the 1629th meeting, on 12 llovember, the representative of i1Iongolia 
introduced') on behalf of Cuba, India, Iraq, Hol_!_golia, Peru, Somalia:) the Syri~ 
Arab Republic and Yemen, a draft resolution TA/C.2/L.l355), entitled "Role of 
public sector in promoting the economic development of developing countries". 
Subsequently Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

7. At the 1633rd meeting, on 19 dovember, as a result of informal consultations, 
t~r. I. Hamid (Sudan), Vice-Chairman of the Committee, orally revised, on behalf 
of the sponsors, the draft resolution by: (a) deleting in the second preambular 
paragraph tne word "wealth"; and (b) replacing, in operative paragraph 1, the 
words "in consultation with the countries concerned" by the words "in 
consultation with the States concerned". 

8. At the same meeting, the Cornmi ttee adopted the draft resolution, as orally 
revised, without a vote (see para. 21 below, draft r.esolution I). 

II 

9. At the lo30th meeting, on 15 November, tl:te representative of Pakistan 
introduced, on ·behalf of Afghanistan, Argentina, Banglac1esh, Botswana, Burundi, 
the Central African Republic, Chad 9 the Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Equatorial Guinea" 

/ ... 



A/y886 
Enc;lish 
Page 4 

Gabon, Guinea) Guyana~ India, Indonesiaj Iran, Kenya, l1Iadagascar, Halaysia, ilali, 
the 1"1ig8:t.:_~ Hi_p:er:h_~, PakiS~, ti1e ?hilipplnes, ~wanda~Selleg~Ug~-:- the----
!Jnlted ,;epublic of Cameroon, the United Republic of Tanzania, the 1JJ]l_~r_Volta, 
Yu~,oslavia and Zaire, a O.raft resolution (A/C. 2/1.1372), entitled 'Permanent 
sovereit;nty over- national resources in the occupied Arab territories 11 0 

10. At the 1635th meetinc;, on 21 Hovember, the representative of Pakistan 
introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l372/Rev.l), on behalf of 
Jlfghani.stan) ArgentinaJ Bangladesh, Botswana, Burundi~ the Central African 
Bepublic ~ Cha~the cOngo) Cuba~ DahOmey, Equatorial Guinea-,-GabOll~-G{;ineB:", 
Gu:/3.na :)-India, In done si a~ Iran_, Kenya~ Uad~C'ar ';I l~fui-aysia ';I Mali .. the Niger~ 
Ui;-;rla ~·-pakistan, ti1e--:Phili"PPines ~ R~o.randa J Senegal, Togo, Uganda, the Uilit"ed 
Republic of Cameroon, the United Ilepublic of Tanzania;the upperVolta and 
Yu;o;oslavia. In the revised text, after the words-"R"equests the Secretary-
General" in operative paragraph 5, the words "with' the assistance of relevant 
specialized agencies and United Nations organs, including the United nations 
Conference on Trade and Development,'' were inserted. 

ll. In connexion with the reviseu draft resolution, the CmJmittee had before it a 
statement on the aii1ainistrative and financial implications (A/C.2/L.l385) submitted 
by the Secretary-General in accordance >rith rule 153 of the rules of procedure of 
the General Assembly. 

12. At the sruae meet inc;, the representative of Iraq requested separate votes on 
operative paragraphs 3 and 4 and the revised draft resolution as a whole. The 
Co~~ittee voted as follo>rs: 

(a) The Committee retained operative paragraph 3 by a roll-call vote of 
93 to 2, with 29 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan~ Albania, Algeria~ Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Bhutan, Botswana~ Brazil, Bulgaria~ Burma~ Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, 
China J Congo, Cuba, Cyprus~ Czechoslovakia~ Dahomey) Democratic 
Y€men 9 Ecuador) E~ypt 1 Ethiopia, Fiji? Gabon, Gambia~ German 
Democratic Republic, Ghana 5 Greece~ Guinea~ Guinea-Bissau; 
Guyana, Honduras~ Hungary., India, Indonesia? Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, 
Japan, Jordan~ Kenya~ Khmer Republic 5 Kuvait, Lebanon~ Lesotho, 
Liberia~ 1·-iadagascar, dalaysia., Mali~ l'1alta 3 Mexico, HongoliaJ 
dorocco~ Ni;;er) lhgeriaJ Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru" 
Philippines) Poland" Portugal~ Qatar~ Romania~ Rwanda) Saudi 
Arabia) Sene ,sal, Sierra Leone ; Singapore:~ Spain~ Sri Lanka j 
Sudan, Svaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and 
Tobago~ T'unisia ~ Turkey, Uganda~ Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, \h1ion of Soviet Socialist Republics, Unitecl Arab 
-"i:oir&tes, United Hepublic of Ca'!leroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania) Upper Volta, Venezuela~ Yemen, Yueoslavia ~ Zaire~ 
Zambia. 

I . .. 



A/9886 
English 
Page 5 

Against: Israel, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belf(ium, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, 
Costa Rica, Denmark, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany 
(Federal Republic of), Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Ireland, Italy, 
Laos, Malawi, Nepal, Netherlands, Ne-,r Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, 
Sweden, Thailand, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, Uruguay. 

(b) The Committee retained operative paragraph 4 by a roll-call vote of 
95 to 2, with 27 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulp:aria, Burma, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Repul:Jlic, Chad, Chile, 
China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic 
Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, German 
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea·~Bissau, 
Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, llifexico, ~iongolia, Norocco, 
llepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Ca~eroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper v·olta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yur;oslavia, Zaire, 
Zambia. 

Against: Israel, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Denmark, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti , Honduras , Ireland, 
Italy, Laos, Halawi, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nory.ra:y, 
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and rTorthern Ireland, 
Urursuay. 

(c) The Committee adopted the revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l372/Rev.l) 
as a whole by a roll-call vote of 95 to 2, with 28 abstentions (see para. 21 
below, draft resolution II). The voting was as follm<s: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, .Argentina, Bahrain, Bang·ladesh, 
Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Central African Renublic, Chad, Chile, China, 
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey~ Democratic Yemen, 
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gal:Jon, Gambia, German 
Democratic Republic., Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 

I .. . 



A/9886 
English 
Page 6 

Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan,· Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Madagascar, Malaysi~, Mali, Malta, Mexico~ Mongolia, Morocco, 
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia~ Zaire, 
Zambia. 

Against: Israel, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, 
Costa Rica, Denmark, El Salvador, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland, 
Italy, Laos, Malawi, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, 
Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, Uruguay. 

III 

13. At the 1629th meeting, on 12 November, the representative of the Upper Volta 
introduced, on behalf of Algeria, Brazil, Chad, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Guinea, India, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Madagascar 5 Mali, Mauritania~ Mexico, 
Morocco, the Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines, Senegal, the Sudan, 
Tunisia, Uganda, the United Republic of~zania, the Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia and Zaire, a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l370) entitled "International 
co-operation to combat desertification", which read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Recalling its resolution 3168 (XXVIII) of 17 December 1973 and Economic 
and Social Council resolution 1826 (LV) of 10 August 1973 which noted the 
need for new action to intensify international co-operation enabling all 
countries and, in particular, the developing countries to benefit from the 
ac.hievements of modern science and technology for the acceleration of their 
economic and social progress, 

"Recallin~ further its resolution 3202 ( S-VI) in section I, 
paragraph 2 (c of which it recommended that the international community 
urgently take concrete measures to stem the spread of deserts and to assist 
developing countries affected by the phenomenon to ensure the economic 
development of the areas affected, 

"Noting the relevant decisions of the Governing Council of the United 
Nations Development Programme which, inter alia, called for the need to 
undertake in-depth studies on the extent of the drought in Africa and draw up 
corresponding action programmes, 

I . .. 



• 

A/9886 
English 
Page 7 

''Noting further Economic and Social Council resolution 1878 (LVII) which 
requested all the organizations of the United Nations system concerned to 
pursue their activities and efforts to>rards a broad, system-wide attack on 
the drought problem, 

"Emphasizing the necessity to ensure that all available knowledge in 
this area is fully utilized, in particular, the experience available in the 
Office of Technical Co-operation at United Nations Headquarters, the United 
Nations Development Programme, United Nations Environment Programme, Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization, World Meteorological Organization and 
the Committee on Science and Technology of the Economic and Social Council, 

"Fully aware of the need for further research to clarify a number of 
fundamental problems for the solution of which the requisite scientific 
knowledge is not yet available, 

"Recognizing the urgent need to prepare a world integrated programme of 
development research and application of science and technolo~ to solve the 
special problems of desertification in all its ramifications and reclamation 
of land lost to desertification, 

"Convinced that work in this field should be carried out at the national, 
regional and global levels through studies and meetings at the appropriate 
technical levels, 

"Convinced further that an intergovernmental conference on 
desertification would provide the international community an opportunity to 
launch a broad plan of action with a view to resolving the problem of 
desertification, 

"1. Decides to convene in 1977 an intergovernmental conference on 
desertification under the auspices of the United Nations; 

"2. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the competent 
bodies of the United Nations concerned, particularly the United Nations 
Environmerit Programme, to establish co-ordinating machinery to assist 
technically in: 

"(a) The preparation of a world map of areas affected and areas likely 
to be affected by the process of desertification; 

11 (b) The assessment of all available data and information on 
desertification and its consequences on the development process of the 
countries affected, through the enlisting of all the expertise available from 
public and private lnstitutions and organizations of Member States, including 
ongoing and planned research, studies and activities within the United 
Nations system; 

I . .. 



A/9886 
Ene;lish 
Page 8 

" (c) The preparation of an effective, cornprehensi ve and co-ordinated 
action prograc~e against desertification, including the building up of 
indigenous and autonomous science and technology capacity in the areas 
concerned; 

"3. Requests the United l'{ations Development Programme and United Nations 
Environment Programme to provide assistance for undertaking the collection of 
data and information, analyses and studies on all aspects of the uroblem of 
dese;rtification and sl)onsor, in co-operation with the regional economic 
con:missions, follo•-J·-up technical meetinP,s at the regional and subregional 
levels preparatory to the conference; 

"4. Invites all the organizations of tbe United Nations system concerned, 
particularly those listed in prearnbular para;craph 5 above, to take all 
appropriate measures to assist in the ureparation of the conference; 

"5. Requests_ the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at 
its tllirtv-first session, throup:h the Economic and Social Council at its 
sixt:i.eth session, a rerort on the convening of the conference~ 1 ~ 

liL At the l636th meeting, on 22 November, the representative of the Upper Volta 
introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l370/Rev.l). The revisions were 
as follous: 

(a) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the words "the \•lorld Health 
Orga.'1ization, the United Nations Industrial Develoument Organization, the United 
:Tations Conference on Trade and Development" were inserted after the words "the 
T:Torld Meteorological Orr::ani zation n ~ 

(b)' A new sixth preambular paragranh was inserted, which read as follows: 

")>ully avare of certain activities in this area contemplated by Economic 
and Soci2l Council resolution 1898 (LVII) and certain other activities 
initiated in the United Nations Environment Programme in accordance with 
United Nations :environment Programme Governing Council resolution 8 (II), 
part A 2, but nevertheless aware also of the need for additional research to 
clarify a number of fundamental problems for the solution of which the • 
requisite scientific knOwledge is not yet available, 11 ; 

(c) ~'he former sixth preambular paragraph was deleted; 

(d) Ocerative paragraphs l to 5 were revised to read as follows: 

l. Decides, as a matter of priority, to initiate concerted 
internatione"l action to combat desertification:" 

"2. Decides further to convene in 1977 a United Nations Conference on 
desertificc.tion to give iinpetus to the international action to combat 
desertification:. 

I . .. 



A/9886 
English 
Page 9 

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to authorize the Executive Director 
of the United Nations Environment Programme to establish immediately, under 
the authority of the Secretary-General, a s!!lall conference sec.retariat, 
drawing upon the resources of the United Nations syster', especially the 
United Nations Environment Progra~~e, the United Nations Development 
Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization and Horld 
Meteorological Organization; 

"4. Reguests further the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the 
competent bodies of the United Nations concerned, particularly the United 
Nations Environment Programme, to convene an ad hoc intera,7,ency task force 
to assist the secretariat of the Conference in: 

" (a) The preparation of a world map of areas affected and areas likely 
to be affected by the process of desertification: 

"(b) The assessment of all available data and information on 
desertification and its consequences on the development process of the 
countries affected, through the enlisting of all the expertise available frorr 
public and private institutions and organizations of Member States~ including 
ongoing and planned research, studies and activities ,.,-i thin the United Natior;s 
system:, 

11 (c) The preparation of an effective, con:.prehensive Cilld co-ordinated 
action programme against desertification, including the building up of 
indigenous and autonomous science and technology capacity in the areas 
concerned; 

'5. Requests further the Secretary-General to keep the above-mentioned 
task force fully informed of the results of the 1mrk carried out in 
implementation of Economic and Social Council resolution 1898 (LVII); 

"6. Requests further the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Development Programme and the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Proc,ramme, within the framework of paragraph 4 above, to provide 
financial and "technical assistance for undertaking the collection of data 
and information, analyses and studies on all aspects of the problem of 
desertification and on that basis, as part of the preparatory process for 
the conference, and in consultation with the Governments concerned, sponsor, 
in co-operation with the regional economic commissions, technical meetin~s 
at the regional and the subregional levels as appropriate; 

"7. Invites all Member States to make available through the Secretary-
General, to the Conference secretariat, relevant information on combating 
desertification; 

/ ... 



A/9886 
English 
Page 10 

"8. 
concerned, particularly those 
take all appropriate measures 
paragraph 4 above; 

listed in preambular paragraph 5 above, 
to assist in the implementation of 

';9. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly 
at its thirtieth session, through the Economic and Social Council, a 
progress report on the implementation of this resolution.;, 

15. The revised draft resolution was snonsored by Algeria, Argentina, Australia, 
Brazil, Burundi, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Dahomey, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
gambia, Ghana~ Guinea, Haiti, India, Iran, Iraa, Ja~an, Jordan, Kuwait, the 
Libyan Arab Republic, MaCtap.:ascar, Mali, Hauritania, Mexico, Morocco~ the Niger, 
Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, the Phili p;:;ir;"es , Rwanda, Senegal, the Sudan, Tunisia, 
U~anda, the United A~ Emirates, the United Republic of Cameroon, the United 
Republic of Tanzania, the Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zaire. 

16. At the same meeting, follm1ing a statement by a representative of the Budget 
Division concerning the administrative and financial implications of the revised 
draft resolution, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l370/Rev.l) without a vote (see para. 21 below, draft resolution III). 

I . .. 



IV 

A/9886 
English 
Page 11 

17. At the l630th meecing, on 15 November, the representative of the Fhilippines 
introduced and orally corrected, on behalf of Australia, Fi,i i, Jamaica, Madap:ascar, 
New Zealand and the Philippines, the revised draft resolu~ in A/C.2/L.l354/Rev.l. 
The correction replaced, in operative paragraph 1, the words "the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development" by the words "international financial 
institutions, regional development banks,". Subsequently, Japan and Trinidad and 
Tobap:o joined in sponsoring the revised draft resolution. 

18. At the 163Bth meeting, on 25 November, the representative of the Philippines 
introduced, on behalf of the sponsors, the revised draft resolution in 
A/C.2/L.l354/Rev.2. The revisions were as follows: 

(a) In operative paragraph 1, the words "the Inter-Governmental Maritime 
Consultative Organization" were inserted after the words "the World Meteorological 
Organization"; the words "in the implementation" were deleted; and the words "of 
the aforementioned resolutions" were replaced by the words "bearing in mind the 
aforementioned resolutionsu; 

(b) In operative paragraph 4, the words "to submit progress reports" were 
replaced by the words "to report"; and the words "the mid-term review" were 
replaced by the words "their reporting in relation to the mid-term review". 

19. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America orally 
proposed an amendment to operative paragraph 2 of the revised draft resolution, 
which would insert the words "the relevant provisions of" before the words "the 
Programme of Action". 

20. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the draft resolution and the 
amendments thereto: 

(a) The Committee rejected the amendment by a roll-call vote of 93 to 11, 
with 16 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, United Kingdcm of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, 
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile, 
China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic 
Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,· Fiji, Gabon, 
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, 
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab 
Republic, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, 

; ... 



A/9886 
English 
Page 12 

Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, 
Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Central African Republic, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Finland, Greece, Haiti, Iceland, Japan, Norway, Singapore, 
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Republic of Cameroon. 

(b) The Committee adopted the revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l354/Rev.2) 
by 121 votes to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 21 below, draft resolution IV). 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE 

21. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Role of the public sector in promoting the economic development 
of developing countrie~ 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974 containing the Declaration 
on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order, and 2626 (XXV) of 
24 October 1970, containing International Develorment Strategy for the Second 
United Nations Develorment Decade, 

Recognizing the right of every State to exercise full and permanent 
sovereignty over its natur§l resources and economic activities, 

Considering that the public sector Las made an important contribution in 
promoting the econcmic development of many countries, 

l. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare, in consultation with the 
States concerned, a report on the role of the public sector in promoting the 
economic develorment of developing countries, and to submit it to the Economic 
and Social Council at its fifth-ninth session; 

2. lie commends that the Economic and Social Council should consider this 
question further at its fifty-ninth session together with the report of the 
Secretary-General. 

; ... 



DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

Permanent sovereignty over national resources in the 
occupied Arab territories 

The General Assembly, 

A/9886 
English 
Page 13 

Bearing in mind the relevant principles of international la1; and the 
provisions of the international conventions and regulations, especially the fourth 
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, 
of 12 August 1949, 2/ concerning the obligations and, responsibilities of the 
occupying Power, 

Recalling its previous resolutions on permanent sovereignty over natural 
resources, particularly their provisions supporting resolutely the efforts of 
developing countries and the peoples of the territories under colonial and racial 
dGmination and foreign occupation in their struggle to regain effective control 
over their natural resources, 

Recalling the pertinent provisions of the, International Development Strategy 
for the Second United Nations Development Decade, ~/ and its resolution 
3176 (XXVIII) of 17 December 1973 on the first biennial over-all review and 
appraisal of progress in the implementation of the Strategy, 

Recalling also its resolution 3005 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972, in which it 
affirmed the principle of the sovereignty of the population of the occupied 
territories over its national >realth and resources and called upon all States, 
international organizations and specialized agencies not to recognize or co-operate 
with, or assist in ar>y manner in, any measures undertaken by the occupying Power 
to exploit the resourc<es of the occupied territories or to effect any changes in 
the demographic ccmposition or geographic character or institutional structure of 
those territories, 

Bearing in rr.ind the pertinent provisions of its resolution 3201 (3-VI) of 
l May 1974, containing the Declaration on the Establishment of a New International 
Economic Order and its resolution 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974, containing the 
Prograrr,me of Action on the Establishment of a New International Order, 

Recalling further its resolution 3175 (XXVIII) of 17 December 1973, entitled 
"Permanent sovereignty over national resources in the occupied Arab territories", 
and deploring that Israel has not complied with its provisions, in particular 
those contained in paragraph 2, 

1. Reaffirms the right of the Arab States and peoples whose territories are 
under Israeli occupation to full and effective permanent sovereignty over all their 
resources and wealth; 

2/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, 1949, No. 973. 
~~General Assembly resolution 2626 (XXV). 

I . .. 



A/9886 
English 
Page 14 

2. Reaffirms further that all measures undertaken by Israel to ex·ploit the 
human, natural and all other resources and wealth of the occupied .;rab territories 
are illegal, and calls upon Israel immediately to rescind all such measures; 

3. Further reaffirms the right of the Arab States, territories and peoples 
subjected to Israeli aggression and occupation to the restitution of and full 
compensation for the exploitation, depletion, loss and damages to the natural and 
all other resources and wealth of those States, territories and peoples; 

4. Declares that the above principles apply to all States, territories and 
peoples under foreign occupation, colonial rule, alien domination and apartheid, 
or subjected to foreign aggression; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of relevant 
specialized agencies and United Nations organs, including the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, to prepare a report on the adverse economic 
effects on the Arab States and peoples, resulting from repeated Israeli aggression 
and continued occupation of their territories, to be submitted to the General 
Assembly at its thirtieth session. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION III 

International co-operation to combat desertification 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 3168 (XXVIII) of 17 December 1973 and Economic and 
Social Council resolution 1826 (LV) of 10 August 1973, which noted the need for 
new action to intensify international co-operation enabling all countries, and 
in particular the developing countries, to benefit from the achievements of modern 
science and technology for the acceleration of their economic and social progress, 

Recalling further its resolution 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974, in section I, 
paragraph 2 (c), of which it recommended that the international community urgentlY 
take concrete measure to stem the spread of deserts and to assist developing 
countries affected by the phenomenon to ensure the economic development of the 
areas affected, 

Noting the relevant decisions of the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Development Programme which, inter alia, called for the need to undertake in-depth 
studies on the extent of the drought in Africa and draw up corresponding action 
programmes, 

Noting further Economic and Social Council resolution 1878 (LVII) of 
16 July 1974, in which the Council requested all the organizations of the United 
Nations system concerned to pursue their activities and efforts towards a broad, 
system-wide attack on the drought problem, 

I ... 



A/9B86 
English 
Page 15 

Emphasizing the necessity to ensure that all available knowledge in this area 
is fully utilized, in particular, the experience available in the Office of 
Technical Co-operation at United Nations Headquarters, the United Nations 
Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme, the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization, the World Meteorological Organization, the 
World Health Organization, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, 
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and_the Committee on Science 
and Technology of the Economic and Social Council, 

FulLy aware of certain activities in this area contemplated by Economic and 
Social Council resolution 1898 (LVII) of 1 August 1974, and certain other 
activities initiated in the United Nations Environment Programme in accordance 
with part A 2 of Governing Council resolution 8 (II), but nevertheless aware also 
of the need for additional research to clarify a number of fundamental problems 
for the solution of which the requisite scient.ific knowledge is not yet available, 

Recognizing the urgent need to prepare a world integrated programme of 
development research and application of science and technology to solve the 
special problems of desertification in all its ramifications and reclamation of 
land lost to desertification, 

Convinced that work in this field should be carried out at the national, 
regional and global levels through studies and meetings at the appropriate 
technical levels, 

Convinced further that an intergoverr~ental conference on desertification 
would provide the international community an opportunity to launch a broad plan 
of action with a view to resolving the problem of desertification, 

1. Decides, as a matter ~f priority, to initiate concerted international 
action to combat desertification; 

2. Decides further to convene in 1977 a United Nations Conference on 
Desertification to give impetus to the international action to combat 
desertification; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to authorize the Executive Director of 
the United Nations Environment Programme to establish immediately, under the 
authority of the Secretary-General, a small conference secretariat, drawing upon 
the resources of the United Nations system, especially the United Nations 
Environment Programme, _the United Nations Development Programme, the Food and 
Agriculture Organizat.i'on of the United Nations, the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization and the World Heteorological Organization; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the competent 
bodies of the United Nations concerned, particularly the United Nations Environment 
Programme, to convene an ad hoc interagency task force to assist the secretariat 
of the Conference in: 

I ... 



A/9886 
English 
Page 16 

(a) The preparation of a world map of areas affected and areas likely to be 
affected by the process of desertification; 

(b) The assessment of all available data and information on desertification 
and its consequences on the development process of the countries affected, 
through the enlisting of all the expertise available from public and private 
institutions and organizations of Member States, including ongoing and planned 
research, studies and activities within the United Nations system; 

(c) The preparation of an effective, comprehensive and co-ordinated action 
prograrmne against desertification, inculding the building-up of indigenous and 
autonomous science and technology capacity in the areas concerned; 

5. Further requests the Secretary-General to keep the above-mentioned task 
force fully informed of the results of the work carried out in implementation of 
Economic and Social Council resolution 1898 (LVII); 

6. Requests the Governing Council of the United Nations Development 
Programme and the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme, 
within the framework of paragraph 4 above, to provide financial and technical 
assistance for undertaking the collection of data and information, analyses and 
studies on all aspects of the problem of desertification and on that basis, as 
part of the preparatory process for the ConferencE, and in consultation with the 
Governments concerned, sponsor, in co-operation with the regional economic 
commissions, technical meetings at the regional and the subregional levels as 
appropriate; 

7. Invites all 14ember States to make available through the Secretary-
General, to the Conference secretariat, relevant information on combating 
desertification; 

8. Invites all the organizations of the United Nations system concerned, 
particul&rly thoce listed in the fifth preambular paragraph above, to take all 
appropriate measures to assist in the implementation of paragraph 4 of the 
present resolution; 

9· RequeEts the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
thirtieth session, through the Economic and Social Council, a progress report on 
the implementation •of the present resolution. 

I . .. 



DRAFT RESOLUTION IV 

Developing island countries 

The General Assembly, 

A/9886 
English 
Page 17 

Recalling resolution 65 (III) adopted by the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development 1/ on 19 May 1972, and Trade and Development Board 
resolutions 101 (XIII) of 8 September 1973 and 108 (XIV) of l2 September 1974, 
respectively, 

Recalling further General Assembly resolution 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974, 
containing the Programme of Action on the Establishrr.ent of a New International 
Economic Order, which, inter alia, calls upcn the international colliffiunity to 
assist the developing countries while devoting particular attention to the least 
developed, land-locked and island developing countries and those developing 
countries most seriously affected by economic crises and natural calamities 
leading to the serious retardation of development processes, 

Recalling also Economic and Social Council decision 28 (LVII) of 
2 August 1974 on the special economic problems and development needs of 
geographically disadvantaged developing island countries, 

l. Invites the heads of organizations concerned within the United Nations 
system, particularly those of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations 
Industrial Development Organization, the International Labour Organisation, the 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Civil 
Aviation Organization, the lvorld Meteorological Organization, the Inter-
Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization, international financial 
institutions, regional development tanks and the regional economic commissions, 
to intensify their efforts with respect to developing island countries within 
their fields of competence, bearing in mind the aforementioned resolutions; 

2. Calls upon the Secretary-General to take effective measures towards 
meeting the needs of the developing island countries in accordance with the 
Prograw~e of Action, on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order; 

3. Urges the Governments of developed countries, within the context of 
their assistance programmes, and other countries with the potential to do so, 
to consider extending appropriate financial and technical assistance to developing 
island countries, especially for the expansion of their transportation and 
communication facilities and the development of their marine resources; 

1/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
Third Session, vol. I, Reports and Annexes ( United Nations publication, Sales 
No.: E.73.II.D.4), annex A.l. 

/ ... 



A/~6 
English 
Page 18 

4. Requests the heads of the United Nations organizations concerned to 
report on the implementation of the present resolution to the Economic and Social 
Council at its fifty-ninth session, through the Committee for Review and Appraisal 
at its 1975 session, within the context of their reporting in relation to the 
mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy for the 
Second United Nations Develorment Decade and in preparation for the seventh special 
session of the General Assembly on development and international economic 
co-operation, to be held in 1975 . 

• 




