
















































UNITED NATIONS 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9872 
GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 26 November 1974 

ORIGD'AL: miG LIS!! 

Twenty-ninth session 
Jlgenda item 40 

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COM!HTTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISRAELI 
PRACTICES AFFECTING THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE POPULATION 

OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES 

Report of the Special Political Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Hassan ABDULDJALIL (Indonesia) 

1. The item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Euman Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories" 
was included in the provisional agenda of the twenty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly in accordance with resolution 3092 B (XXVIII) of 7 December 1973. 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its 
agenda and to allocate it to the Special Political Committee for consideration and 
report. 

3. The Special Political Committee examined the item at its 928th to 932nd 
meetings, between 8 and 12 November. It had before it the report of the Special 
Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the 
Population of the Occupied Territories (A/9817), as well as the report of the 
Secretary-General (A/9843), submitted in accordance with paragraph 10 (c) of General. 
Assembly resolution 3092 B (XXVIII). In addition, the Committee had before it a 
letter dated 9 October 1974 from tbe Permanent Repres.entative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9799-S/11535). 

4. The Special Political Committee began consideration of the item at its 
928th meeting, on 8 November, by hearing a statement by the Chairman of the Special 
Committee, who introduced its report. 

5. In the course of its consideration of the item, the Special Political Committee 
received three draft resolutions, as set forth in sections I, II and III below. 

"T4-32719 / ... 



A/9812 
English 
Page 2 

I 

I 

6. At the 930th meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Afghanistan 
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/L.305) sponsored by Afghanistan, Guinea, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Hali, Pakistan and the Philinpines. Subsequently, Chad, 
Madagascar, the Niger and the Upper Volta joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

1. On 12 November, the Secretary-General, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules 
of procedure of the General Assembly, submitted a statement (A/SPC/L.308 and Rev.l) 
on the administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution. 

8. At the 932nd meeting, on 12 November, the Corrmittee adopted the draft 
resolution by a recorded vote of 82 to 4, with 25 abstentions (see para. 15 below, 
draft resolution A). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan~ Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bulgaria, 
Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, 
Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic 
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea~ Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer 
Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Hauritania, Hexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, To~o, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Bolivia, Israel, Nicara~1a, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, El Salvador, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malawi, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and,Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

II 

9· Also at the 930th meeting, the representative of Afghanistan introduced a draft 
resolution (A/SPC/L.306) sponsored by Afghanistan, Argentina, Greece, Guinea, 
Indonesia, ~.lalaysia, Mali. Pakistan and the Philippines. Subsequently, Madagascar, 
the Niger, Turkey and the Upper Volta joined as sponsors of the draft resolution. 

10. At the 932nd meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by a recorded 
vote of 102 to none, with 5 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft resolution B). 
The voting was as follows: 

/ ... 



A/9872 
English 
Page 3 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, ~elorussian Soviet 
Socialist Renublic, Canada, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Fi,i i, Finland, France, 
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, K~~er Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan 
Arab Republic , Madagascar, Mali , Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, ~Torway, 
Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland., Portugal, Qatar, Romania, 
Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sin~apore, Somalia, Spain, Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, Uk.rainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United 
States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Bolivia, Costa Rica, Israel, Malawi, Nicaragua. 

III 

11. At the 932nd meeting, the representative of Mali introduced a draft resolution 
(A/SPC/L.307) sponsored by Guinea and Mali. Subsequently, Afghanistan, Madagascar, 
the Niger, Pakistan and the Upper Volta joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Mali, on behalf of the sponsors, 
orally revised the text of the draft resolution by substituting, in operative 
paragraph l, the word "endorses" for the word "confirrn.s". 

13. On 12 November, the Secretary-General, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules 
of procedure of the General Assembly, submitted to the Committee a statement 
(A/SPC/L.309) on the administrative and financial imnlications of the draft 
resolution. 

14. At the 932nd meeting, the Committee adonted the draft resolution, as orally 
revised, by a recoPded vote of 79 to 4, with-28 abstentions (see para. 15 below, 
draft resolution C). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bulgaria, 
Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, 
Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Gabon, Gambi~~ German Democratic 
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, 

; ... 



A/9872 
En12;lish 
Page 4 

India, Indonesia, Iran~ Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Ktrrner Republ-ic, 
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Mali, ~1auritania, Mexico~ Mongolia, Morocco, Nig-er" 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Foland~ Portugal, Qatar~ 
Romania~ Rwanda~ Senegal> Sierra Leone 1 Sin(~a-pore, Somalia~ Spain, 
Sri Lanh:a, Sudan, Gyri an Arah D.epublic, s:·'hailand_, Togo, rrrinidad 
ar.d Tobago') Tunisia, Turkey j Ueanda ~ Ukraini2n Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Bolivia, Canada, Israel~ T.,Tic aragua. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Denmark,"Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France~ Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
''!alawi, Nepal, Netherlands, Hew Zealand, Norwav, Sweden, United 
Kinr:dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of 
America 5 Uruguay, Venezuela4 

RECOM'!ENDATIONS OF TH" SPECIAL POLITICAL COMMITTEE 

15. The Special Political Committee recommends to the General Assembly the 
adoption of the following draft resolutions: 

Report of the Special Committee to Investip:ate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rir:hts of the Population of the Occupied 

Territories 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Guided by the purposes and princinles of the Charter of the United Nations as 
well as the principles and provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of Far, of 12 August 1949, y as well as 
other relevant conventions and regulations, 

Recalling its resolutions on the subject, as well as those adopted by the 
Security Council, the Commission on Human Rights and other United Nations bodies 
concerned and by specialized agencies, 

~/United Nations, Treaty Series, val. 75, No. 973, p. 287. 

I ... 



A/9872 
English 
Page 5 

Considerinr: that the implementation of the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 
cannot and sbould not be left open in a. situation involving foreign military 
occupation and the rights of the civilian population of those territories, 

Qenlorinil' the continued refusal by Israel to allow the Special Committee to 
Investigate Israeli Practices 1\ffectinp; the Human Rights of the Population of the 
Occupied 'Territories access to the nccu1)ied territories 9 

Having consid~ered the re-port of the Snecial COll'J"littee, ?J 

l. Commends the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affectinr; 
the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories for its efforts in 
nerforming the tasks assignee~ to it by the General AssemlJly; 

2. Calls upon Isratel to allow the Special Committee access to the occupied 
territories; 

3. Ex:presses the gravest concern at the continued and persistent disregard 
by Israel of the Geneva Conve~tion relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in 
Time of 1tlar, of 12 August 1949, and o-t'1er anulicable international instruments, in 
particular the follo1,ring violations: 

(a) The annexation of parts of the occupied territories: 

(b) The establisr@ent of Israeli settlements therein and the transfer of alien 
population thereto; 

(c) Tbe destruction and demolition of Arab houses, villages and towns; 

(d) 'I'he confiscation and expropriation of Arab property in the occupied 
territories and all other transactions for the acquisition of land involving the 
Israeli authorities, institutions or nationals, on the one hand, and the inhabitants 
or institutions of the occupied territories on the other; 

(e) The evacuation, deportation, expulsion, displacement and transfer of Arab 
inhabitants of the occupied territories and the denial of their right to return; 

(f) Mass arrests, administrative detention and ill-treatment of the Arab 
population; 

(g) The pillaging of archaeological and cultural property; 

(h) The interference with religious freedoms and practices, as well as family 
rights and customs; 

(i) ':Che illegal exploitation of the natural wealth, resources and population 
of the occupied territories; 

?J A/9817. 

I ... 



A/9872 
English 
Page 6 

4. Declares that those policies of Israel constitute not only a direct 
contravention to, and violation of, the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations, in ~articular, the ~rinciples of sovereignty and territorial 
integrity, the ~rinci~les and provisions of the applicable international la>r 
concerning occupation and the basic human rights of the people, but also an 
impediment to the establishment of a just and lasting peace; 

5. Reaffirms that all measures taken by Israel to change the physical 
character, demographic composition, institutional structure or status of the 
occupied territories, or any part thereof, are null and void; 

6. Reaffirms further that Israel's poli~y of settling parts of its population 
and new immigrants in the occupied territories is a flagrant violation of the Geneva 
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of 1.Jar and relevant 
United Nations resolutions, and urges all States to refrain from any action which 
Israel will exploit in carrying out its policy of colonizing the occupied 
territories; 

7. Demands that Israel desist forthwith from the annexation and colonization 
of the occupied Arab territories as well as from all the policies and practices 
referred to in paragraph 3 above; 

( 

8. Reiterates its call upon all States, international organizations and 
specialized agencies not to recognize any changes carried out by Israel in the 
occupied territories and to avoid actions, including actions in the field of aid, 
which might be used by Israel in its pursuit of the policies and practices referred 
to in the present resolution; 

9. Requests the Special Committee, pending the early termination of the 
Israeli occupation, to continue to investir,ate Israeli policies and practices in 
the Arab ierritories occupied by Israel since 1967, to consult, as appropriate, with 
the Intetnational Committee of the Red Cross in order to ensure the safeguarding of 
the welfare and human rights of the population of the occupied territories, and to 
report to the Secretary-General as soon as possible and whenever the need arises 
thereafter; 

10. Requests the Secretary-General: 

(a) To render all necessary facilities to the Special Committee, including 
those required for its visits to the occupied territories with a view to 
investigating Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present resolution; 

(b) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special Committee 
and of information regarding its activities and findings, by all means available 
through the Office of Public Information of the Secretariat; 

(c) To report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session on the tasks 
entrusted to him; 

I ... 



A/9872 
English 
Page 7 

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session the 
item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rights of the Pouulation of the Occupied Territories". 

B 

The General ~ssembly, 

Affirming that the promotion of respect for the obligations ar1s1ng from the 
Charter of the United Nations and other instruments and rules of international law 
is among the basic purposes and princinles of the United Nations, 

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of Har, of 12 August 1949, 2} 

Recalling that Israel and those Arab States whose territories have been 
occupied by Israel since June 1967 are parties to that Convention, 

Reaffirming that States parties to the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 
undertake, in accordance with article l thereof, not only to respect but also to 
ensure respect for the Convention in all circumstances, 

l. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention 
Civilian Persons in Time of \<Tar, of 12 August 
territories occupied by Israel since 1967; 

relative 
1949, is 

to the Protection of 
applicable to the Arab 

2. Calls once more upon Israel to respect and to comply with the provisions 
of that Convention in the Arab territories occupied by Israel; 

3. Urges all States parties to that Convention to exert all efforts in order 
to ensure respect for, and compliance with, the provisions thereof in the Arab 
territories occupied by Israel. 

c 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Tsraeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied 
Territories, ~ in particular section V thereof concerning the destruction of the 
town of Quneitra, 

3/ United Nations, Treaty Series, val. 75, No. 973, p. 287. 

~ A/9817. 

I . .. 



A/9872 
English 
Page 8 

Recallinr: that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian 
Persons in Time of Har, of 12 August 19!19, 5/ provides that a~y destruction by the 
occupying Power of real or personal pronerty belono;inr: individually or collectively 
to private persons, to the State, to other public authorities or to social or 
co-operative organizations, is vrohibited. 

Noting the Special Committee's deep-seated conviction that the Israeli forces 
and the Israeli occupying authorities were responsible for the deliberate and total 
devastation of Quneitra, in violation of article 53 and under article 147 of the 
Geneva Convention of 12 August 19h9, 

Noting further the Special Committee's OplnJ_on that t~_e gravity of the 
circumstances would. justify the appointment of a cornmission to study the le~al 
consequenct::s of the devastation of Q,uneitra ~ particularly within the context of 
articles 53 and 147 of the Geneva Convention, bearin;o: in mind the ]Jrovisions of 
article 6 (b) of the Charter of the International Military Tribunal of Nuremberg, §) 
confirmed by the General Assembly in its resolution 95 (I) of ll December 19l16, 

l. Endorses the conclusion of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affectine; the Human 'iil"hts of the Population of the Occupied Territories 
that Israel is responsible for the destruction and devastation of the tmm of 
Q;uneitra; 

2. Regards Israel's deliberate destruction and devastation of the tmm of 
Q,uneitra as a grave breach of the Geneva Convention relative to tlle Protection of 
Civilian Persons in Time of ·Har, of 12 August 1949, and condeBns Israel for such 
acts; 

3. Requests the Special Committee, with the assistance of experts, designated 
if necessary in consultation with the Secretary-General, to undertak.e a survey of the 
destruction in Ouneitra and to assess the nature, extent and value of the d?.Jne.ge 
caused by such destructio~; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to make available to the Special Committee 
all the necessary facilities in the performance of its task and to report to the 
General Assembly at its thirtieth session. 

2} United Nations, '.rreaty Series, vol. 75, Eo. 973, p. 287. 

§) United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 82, No. 251, p. 284. 




