
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9892 
3 December 1974 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/FiiENCH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 65 

QUESTION OF NAMIBIA 

Report of the Fourth Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Arnalda H. S. ARAOJO (Guinea-Bissau) 

• 

1. At its 2236th and 2237th plenary meetings, on 21 September 1974, the General 
Assembly, on the recommendation of the General Committee (A/9750), decided to 
include in the agenda of its twenty-ninth session an item entitled: 

"Question of N8llli bia: 

(a) Report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples; 

(b) Report of the United Nations Council for N8lllibia; 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General; 

(d) United Nations Fund For Namibia: reports of the United Nations Council 
for Namibia and of the Secretary-General; 

(e) Appointment of the United Nations Commissioner for N8lllibia", 

and to allocate subitems (a), (b), (c) and (d) to the Fourth CorriDittee for 
consideration and report. Subitem (e) was retained for consideration by the 
General Assembly in plenary meeting. 

2. The Fourth Committee considered the question of N8lllibia at its 2092nd, 2100th 
to 2lloth, 2120th and 2123rd meetings, between 15 October and 29 November. 

3. At the 2100th meeting, on 29 October, the President of the United Nations 

74-33558 I . .. 



A/9892 
English 
Page 2 

Council for Namibia introduced the report of the Council (A/9624 (vol, I) and Corr.l, 
A/9624 (vol. II) and A/9624/Add.l). 

4. At the same meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 
to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter IX of the report of that 
Committee (A/9623/Add.3) relating to the item. 

5. In connexion with its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee had 
before it the following documents: 

(a) The ·report of the Secretary-General relating to the United Nations Fund 
for Namibia (A/9725 and Corr.l), submitted in pursuance of paragraph 10 of General 
Assembly re~olution 3112 (XXVIII) of 12 December 1973; 

(b) The report of the Secretary-General (A/9728) submitted in pursuance of 
section I, paragraph 19 (b), of General Assembly resolution 3111 (XXVIII) of 
12 December 1973; 

(c) Two letters addressed to the Secretary-General, one dated 26.september 1974, 
from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of South Africa (A/9775-S/11519), and the 
other dated 1 October 1974 from the President of the United Nations Council for 
Namibia (A/9786-S/11526); and 

(d) A note verbale dated 1 November 1974 from the Permanent Mission of Mexico 
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretariat (A/C.4/779). 

6. During the Fourth Committee's consideration of the item, Mr. Theo Ben Gurirab, 
1~. Peter Mueshihange and Mr. John Ya Otto, representatives of the South West Africa 
People's Organization (SWAPO), the national liberation movement of the Territory, 
participated in an observer capacity in the proceedings of the Committee, in 
accordance with the related decision taken by the General Assembly at its 2254th 
plenary meeting, on 3 October, on the recommendation of the "Fourth Committee .(A/9765). 

7. l,lr, Gurirab made a statement at the 2100th meeting, on 29 October and 
Hr. Ylueshihange and ~1r. Ya Otto made statements at the 2103rd meeting, on 
4 Nov-ember, Hr. Guairab made a further statement at the 2123rd meeting, on 
29 November, 

8. The Fourth Committee granted the following requests for hearing 1n connexion 
with its consideration o£ the item: 

Petitioner 

lf~. Charles Kauraisa, on behalf of 
Mr, Gerson Veii, South West Africa 
National Union (A/C.4/77l) 

Meeting at which re~uest 
~for hearing was granted 
' ' 

2080th 

I . .. 



Petitioner 

The Reverend G. Michael Scott, International 
League for the Rights of Man (A/C.4/774) 

Miss Barbara J. Rogers, Friends of Namibia 
Committee (A/C.4/77l/Add.l) 

Mr. David E. De Beer (A/C.4/77l/Add.2) 

Mrs. Yoko Kitazawa (A/C.4/771/Add.3) 

Mr. Romesh Chandra, Secretary-General, 
World Peace Council (A/C.4/77l/Add.4) 

A/9892 
English 
Page 3 

Heetinp; at which request 
for hearinp; was p;ranted 

2084th 

210lst 

210lst 

210lst 

2104th 

9. At the 2092nd meeting, on 15 October, the Reverend Scott made a statement. At 
the 210lst meeting, on 31 October, statements were made by Mr. De Beer and 
Mrs. Kitazawa. At the 2103rd meeting, on 4 November, ~1iss Rogers made a statement. 
At the 2106th meeting, on 6 November, statements were made by Mr. Chandra, the 
Reverend John Morgan, Mr. Jarmo Makela and Mr. Tiber Petho of the World Peace 
Council. At the 2110th meeting, on 11 November, Hr. Veii made a statement. 

10. The general debate on the item took place at tr1e 2102nd to 2109th meetings, 
between 1 and 8 November. 

11. At the 2104th meeting, on 5 November, the representative ·of Saudi Arabia 
submitted a draft resolution (A/C.4/L.l066 and Corr.l). 

12. On 25 November, two draft resolutions, one relating to the item as a whole 
(A/C.4/L.l072) and the other concerning the United Nations Fund for Namibia 
(A/C.4/L.l073), were circulated. 

13. At the 2120th meeting, on 27 November, the representatives of Sierra Leone, 
t~dagascar and Egypt introduced revised texts of the two draft resolutions referred 
to in paragraph 12 above, which were finally sponsored by the following Member 
States: 

(a) A/C.4/L.l072/Rev.l: 

Alp;eria, Burundi, Central P.frican Republic, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, 
German Democratic Re-public, Ghana.) Guinea, Guyana~ Hungary~ Inaonesia ~ Iraq} 
Ivory Coast 9 Kenya~ Kuwait., Liberia, Madagascar~ ~·'lali~ lVIauritania~ Ne-palJ 
Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan.\ Poland, Romania, Senegal~ ,Sierra Leone, Somalia, 
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United _Arab Emirates, 
United Re-public of Cameroon~ United Republ.l.c 0f Tanzania~ Upper Volta~ Yemen, 
Yugoslavia ana ~ambia; 

/ ... 



A/9892 
English 
Page 4 

(b) A/C.4/L.l073/Rev.l: 

Burrmdi., Egypt , ___ Fipl~n~., Ghana., Guinea~ G_~yana, Indonesia .. Iran, Ivory Co~st_, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Madagascar, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan .. Rwanda., 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Up:anda, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic o_f._Tanzania, 
Upper Volta, Yugoslavia and Zambia. 

14, At the 2123rd meeting, on 29 November, the Chairman drew attention to statements 
by the Secretary-General (A/C.4/L.l076 and A/C.4/L.l077), submitted in accordance 
with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, concerning the 
administrative and financial implications of the two revised draft resolutions 
referred to in paragraph 13 above. 

15. At the same meeting, on the proposal of the representative of the United 
Republic of Tanzania on behalf of the African and Asian members, the Fourth 
Committee agreed to defer consideration of the draft resolution referred to in 
paragraph 11 above (A/C.4/L.l066 and Corr.l). 

16. At the same meeting, the representative of Sierra Leone submitted the 
following oral revisions to draft resolutions A/C.4/L.l072/Rev.l and 
A/C.4/L.l073/Rev.l: 

(a) In operative paragraph 10 of draft resolution A/C.4/L.l072/Rev.l, the 
word "approve 11 was replaced by the word 11 recommend"; 

(b) Operative paragraph 18 of draft resolution A/C.4/I.l072/Rev.l was deleted 
and the remaining paragraphs were renumbered accordingly; 

(c) In operative paragraph 12 of draft resolution A/C.4/L.l073/Rev,l, the 
words "Requests the United Nations Council for Namibia" were replaced by the words 
"Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations Council for Namibia". 

17. At the same meeting following a statement by the Director of the Budget 
Division of the Office of Financial Services pertaining to the oral revisions 
referred to above, the Fourth Committee voted on the two draft resolutions as 
follows: 

(a) The revised text of draft resolution A/C.4/L.l072/Rev.l, as further 
revised orally, was adopted by a recorded 
(see para. 19 below, draft resolution I). 

vote 
The 

of 96 to none, with 14 abstentions 
voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Balrrain, 
Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa 
Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, 
GBbon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, 

I . .. 



Against: 

A/9892 
English 
Page 5 

Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, IraQ, Ivory Coast, 
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan 
Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Hali, Mauritania, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Morocco, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, 
Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, 
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ul<rainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, 
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper 
VOlta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

None. 

Abstaining: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, !ialawi, Netherlands, Sweden, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States 
of America. 

(b) The revised text of draft resolution A/C.4/L.l073/Rev.l, as further 
revised orally, was adopted without objection (see para. 19 below, draft 
resolution II). 

18, Subsequently, at the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia submitted 
a revised text of the draft resolution referred to in paragraph 11 above; draft 
resolution A/C.4/L,l066/Rev.l read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Taking into account all the resolutions on the question of Nainibia 
adopted by the General Assembly and the Security Council, 

"Recalling that the Territory, at present known as Namibia, was placed 
under the mandate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
in accordance with a decision taken by the League of Nations in 1920, 

"Noting that the United Kingdom entrusted the mandate over Namibia to 
South Africa with a view to preparing the people for self-determination and 
eventual independence in conformity with the spirit and letter of the decisions 
of the League of Nations pertaining to mandated Territories, 

"Taking into account that over half a century has elapsed since South 
Africa assumed the responsibility of preparing the people of Namibia to 
govern themselves, during which period all other mandated Territories have 
gained full independence, 

"Mindful of the fact that, since it affirmed and reaffirmed the right of 
peoples to self-determination, the United Nations has assumed the 
responsibility of accelerating the process of liberation of !!on-Self-Governing 
Territories, 

/ ... 



A/9892 
English 
Page 6 

"1. Urges South Africa to transfer without delay its authority over 
Namibia to the United Nations; 

"2. Requests the Secretary-General, after consultation with the Security 
Council, to appoint two co-administrators from neutral countries to administer, 
with South Africa, Namibia during the period of the transfer which should be 
completed within one year or less, 

"3. Requests the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, with the 
co-operation of the United Nations Council for Namibia, to assist in this task 
by co-ordinating the transfer of power from South Africa; 

"4. Refers the present resolution to the Security Council for further 
action at the earliest possible time." 

The draft resolution was not pressed to a vote. 

I ... 



RECOMMENDATTONS OF THE FOURTH COW1ITTEE 

A/9892 
English 
Page 7 

19. The Fourth Corrmittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

0.uestion of Xamibia 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the question of Namibia, 

Having examined the report of the United Nations Council for Namibia l/ and 
the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 
to Colonial Countries and Peoples,~/ 

Having heard the statement of the representatives of the South '<Test Africa 
People's Organization, lJ who have participated in an observer capacity in the work 
of the United Nations Council for Namibia and the Special Committee, as well as 
in the consideration of the item by the Fourth Co~~ittee, 

Having also heard the statements of the petitioners,~/ 

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Indepeni'.ence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of action 
for the full implementation of the Declaration, 

Recalling in particular its resolutions 2145 (XXI) of 27 October 1966 and 
2248 (S-V) of 19 May 1967 and subsequent resolutions of both the General Assembly 
and the Security Council relating to the question of Namibia, as well as the 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 21 June 1971, L/ 
delivered in response to the request addressed to it by the Security Council in its 
resolution 284 (1970) of 29 July 1970, 

lf A/9624 (vol. I) and Corr.l, A/9624 (vol. II) and A/9624/Add.l. 
~/ A/9623 (Part V), A/9623 (Part VI) and A/9623/Add.3. 

}/ See A/C.4/SR.2100 and 2103. 

~/ See A/C.4/SR.2092, 21Ql, 2103, 2106 and 2110. 

L/ Legal Consequences for States of the Continued Presence of South Africa in 
Namibia (South West Africa) notwithstanding Security Council Resolution 276 (1970), 
Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 1971, p. 16. 

/ ... 



A/9892 
English 
Page 8 

Taking into consideration the resolutions on Namibia adopted by the Conference 
of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its 
eleventh session, held at Mogadiscio from 12 to 15 June 1974, 

Reaffirming that the Territory and people of Namibia are the direct 
responsibility of the United Nations and that the Namibian people must be enabled 
to attain self-determination and independence within a united Namibia, 

StronP,ly deploring South Africa's continued refusal to comply with the 
resolutions and decisions of the United Nations, its continued illegal occupation 
of Namibia, its brutal repression of the Namibian people and its persistent 
violation of their human rights, as well as its efforts to destroy the na~ional 
unity and territorial intesrity of Namibia, 

Recognizing that this situation constitutes a threat to international peace 
and security, 

Strongly deploring the policies of those States which, despite the relevant 
decisions of the United Nations and the advisory opinion of the International 
Court of Justice of 21 June 1971, continue to maintain diplomatic, economic, 
consular and other relations with South Africa, purporting to act on behalf of 
or concerning Namibia, as well as military or strategic collaboration, all of 
which has the effect of supporting or encouraging South Africa in its defiance of 
the United !lations, 

Noting with satisfaction the opposition of the Namibian people to South 
Africa's illegal presence in the Territory and to its racist oppressive policies 
and, in particular, the progress of their struggle in all its forms for national 
liberation under the leadership of the South "lest Africa People's Organization, 

Noting with appreciation the efforts of the United Nations Council for 
Namibia in the discharge of the responsibilities entrusted to it by the relevant 
resolutions of the General Assembly~ 

I 

1. Reaffirms the inalienable and imprescriptible right of the people of 
Namibia to self-determination and independence in accordance with General Assembly 
resolutions 1514 (XV) and 2621 (XXV) and subsequent resolutions; 

2. Reiterates that the national liberation movement of Namibia, the South 
Hest Africa People's Organization, is the authentic representative of the Namibian 
people, and supports its efforts to strengthen national unity; 

3. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle o~the Namibian people by all 
means at their disposal against the illegal occupation of their country by South 
Africa; 

/ ... 



A/9892 
English 
Page 9 

4. Strongly condemns South Africa for its persistent refusal to withdraw 
from Namibia and for its efforts to consolidate its illegal occupation by 
intensified repression and by the imposition of its policies of apartheid and the 
fragmentation of the Territory into "bantustans", in total disregard of the 
wishes of the people of Namibia, the decisions and resolutions of the United 
Nations and the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 
21 June 1971; 

5. Demands the immediate and unconditional withdrawal by South Africa of all 
its military and police forces and its administration from Namibia so as to enable 
the Namibian people to achieve freedom and independence; 

II 

Urges the Security Council to convene urgently in order to take without 
delay effective measures, in accordance with the relevant Chapters of the Charter 
of the United Nations and with resolutions of the Security Council and of the 
General Assembly regarding Namibia, to put an end to South Africa's illegal 
occupation of Namibia; 

III 

l. Ap-proves the report of the United Nations Council for Namibia, §_! 
including the conclusions, recommendations and proposed programme of work 
contained therein, and decides to make adequate financial provision for their 
implementation; 

2. Authorizes adequate financial prov1s1on in the budget of the United 
Nations Council for Namibia to finance an office for the South West Africa 
People's Organization in New :ork, to ensure the due and proper representation of 
the people of Namibia through the South West Africa People's Organization at the 
United Nations; 

3. Decides to defray the expenses of a representative of the South West 
Africa People's Organization when on any mission approved by the United Nations 
Council for Namibia; 

4. Agrees that prov1s1on should be made so that the United Nations Council 
for Namibia may consider and recommend additional staff, as well as consultan~s, 
for the Office of the United Nations Commissioner ror Namibia, when the Council 
deems it necessary, to enable him to carry out any expanded operations of his 
Office which may arise from decisions of the Council; 

~/ A/9624 (vol. I) and Corr.l, A/9624 (vol. II) and A/9624/Add.l. 

( I . ... 



A/9892 
English 
Page 10 

IV 

1. Calls once again upon those States which are not yet complying with the 
relevant provisions of the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council concerning Namibia and the advisory opinion of the International Court of 
Justice of 21 June 1971, to discontinue all direct or indirect relations, 
economic or otherwise, with South Africa when it purports to act on behalf of or 
concerning Namibia; 

2. Urges all States to take all possible economic or other measures with 
a view to compelling South Africa to withdraw immediately from Namibia in 
accordance with General Assembly resolutions 2145 (XXI) and 2248 (S-V) and 
subsequent resolutions; 

3. Further calls upon those States which have consular representation, 
whether ordinary or honorary, in Namibia to terminate such representation, and 
calls upon those States which have consuls in South Africa with consular 
jurisdiction in Namibia to withdraw such accreditation; 

4. Calls upon all States to refrain from supporting and financing any 
racially segregated activity in Namibia; 

5. Calls upon all States to co-operate fully with the United Nations 
Council for Namibia in the discharge of its mandate; 

6. Requests all States to render to the Namibian people, in co-operation 
with the South West Africa People's Organization, all moral and material 
assistance necessary for them to continue their struggle for freedom and 
independence; 

7. Reguests all Member States to take all appropriate measures to ensure 
the full application of, and compliance with, the provisions of the Decree on the 
Natural Resources of Namibia enacted by the United Nations Council for Namibia 
on 27 September 1974 7/ and such other measures as may be necessary to assist in 
the protection of the-national resources of Namibia; 

8. Reaffirms the right of the Namibian people to permanent sovereignty over 
their natural resources and condemns the policies of those States which continue 
to support foreign economic and other interests engaged in exploiting the natural 
and human resources of Namibia, in some cases to the point of foreseeing the 
exhaustion of such natural resources; 

9. Reguests all Member States to commemorate and publicize Namibia Day on 
26 August 1975 and to issue special postage stamps for the occasion; 

II A/9624/Add.l, para. 84. 

I . .. 



v 

A/9892 
English 
Page 11 

l. Reauests the Secretary-General to direct and make adequate provision 
for the setting up of a United Nations radio transmitter in an African State 
which would have the function of transmitting radio programmes in the various 
languages spoken in Namibia, informing the people of Namibia of United Nations 
policies in regard to the liberation of Namibia, the protection of hun\an rights 
and fundamental freedoms, the fight against racism and the steps being taken to 
achieve decolonization throughout the world; 

2. Reguests the Secretary-General to direct the Office of Public 
Information of the Secretariat: 

(a) to intensify its activities as regards dissemination of information in 
an effort to acquaint more fully world public opinion and the mass media with 
the situation in Namibia and the struggle of its people for independence; 

(b) to provide. for the expansion in scope and distribution of the Namibia 
Bulletin; 

(c) to set up a photographic display in the public areas of United Nations 
Headquarters, with a view to keeping visitors informed of developments in 
Namibia; 

(d) to acquire all television programmes produced during the missions of the 
United Nations Council for Namibia and to provide wide distribution to these 
films as well as to the United Nations film, "Namibia - A Trust Betrayed", and 
other appropriate films on Namibia; 

3. Requests all General Assembly committees and sub-committees to invite 
a representative of the United Nations Council for Namibia and the South Hest 
Africa People's Organization to participate whenever the rights and interests 
of Namibia are discussed, and to consult closely with the Council and with that 
organization regarding any draft resolution which may involve the rights and 
interests of Namibians; 

VI 

1. Requests all specialized agencies and other organizations within the 
United Nations system to take such necessary steps as will enable the 
representation and participation of Namibia in the work of such agencies and 
organizations; 

2, Requests all specialized agencies and other organizations within the 
United Nations system to ensure that Namibians are eligible, on the same basis as 
citizens of member States, for scholarships offered by the agencies and 
organizations, and that Namibians wherever possible are employed on the same 
basis as citizens of member S~ates in the agencies concerned; 

/ ... 



A/9892 
English 
Page 12 

3. Requests all specialized agencies and other organizations within the United 
Nations system, in consultation with the United Nations Council for Namibia and the 
South West Africa People's Organization, to render, within their respective spheres 
of competence, all possible assistance to the people of Namibia and to their 
liberation movement in particular; 

4. Requests the United Nations Development Programme, in consultation with the 
United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, to establish an indicative planning figure 
for Namibia; 

5. Calls upon all specialized agencies and organizations in the United Nations 
system, especially the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, to consult with the United Nations Council for 
Namibia and the Secretary-General of the United Nations in order to ensure that those 
organizations are observing their international legal obligations in terms of the 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 21 June 1971 and relevant 
United Nations resolutions in programmes and activities which may involve 
collaboration with South Africa; 

6. Requests all intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, bodies 
and conferences to ensure that the rights and interests of Namibia are protected; in 
this connexion, the United Nations Council for Namibia and the South West Africa 
People's Organization should participate, as appropriate, whenever such rights and 
interests are involved; 

7. Invites all intergovernmental and non~governmental organizations, bodies 
and conferences interested in the liberation of Namibia to co-operate with the South 
West Africa People's Organization and the United Nations Council for Namibia in the 
elaboration of programmes for assistance to Namibians and programmes of 
dissemination of information; 

VII 

Requests the President of the General Assembly, on the basis of consultations 
to be undertaken by the Secretary-General with the regional groups, to nominate 
during the current session of the General Assembly additional members to the United 
Nations Council for Namibia with a view to ensuring a broader representation in the 
Council. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

United Nations Fund for Namibia 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 2145 (XXI) of 27 October 1966, by which the United 
Nations decided to terminate the Mandate of South Africa over Namibia and assume 
direct responsibility for the Territory until its independence, and resolution 
2248 (S-V) of 19 May 1967, by which it established the United Nations Council for 
Namibia, 

/ ... 



A/9892 
English 
Page 13 

Reaffirming its determination to continue to discharge that responsibility 
in regard to the Territory, 

Mindful that, by assuming direct responsibility for Namibia, the United 
Nations incurred a solemn obligation to assist the people of the Territory 
morally and materially, 

Recalling further its resolutions 2679 (XXV) of 9 December 1910, 2872 (XXVI) 
of 20 December 1911, 3030 (XXVII) of 18 December 1912 and 3112 (XXVIII) of 
12 December 1913, 

Recognizing that South Africa's continued illegal occupation of Namibia at 
present prevents the United Nations from furnishing needed, large-scale assistance 
within the Territory, 

Having examined the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Fund 
for Namibia 8/ and the relevant sections of the report of the United Nations 
Council for Namibia, 2f 

1. Apnroves the guidelines prepared by the United Naltions Council for 
Namibia for the United Nations Fund for Namibia; 10/ 

2. Expresses its aq,reciation to all those who have made voluntary 
contributions to the United Nations Fund for Namibia; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations Council for 
Namibia to"continue to appeal to Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental 
organizations and private individuals for voluntary contributions to the United 
Nations Fund for Namibia; 

4. Invites Governments to appeal once more t" their national organizations 
and institutions for voluntary contributions to the Fund; 

5. Endorses the decision of the United Nations Council for Namibia to 
establish an Institute for Namibia in Lusaka 11/ to enable Namibians to undertake 
research, training, planning and related activities, with special reference to the 
struggle for the freedom of Namibia and the establishment of an independent State 
of Namibia, and, to this end, invites Governments to make available adeq_uate 
financial contributions to the United Nations Fund for Namibia to finance the 
cost of setting up and running the Institute; 

~/ A/9725 and Corr.l. 

~/ A/9624 lvol. I) and Corr.l, A/9624 (val. II) and A/9624/Add.l. 

10/ A/9624/Add.l, para. 81. 

11/ Ibid., para. 73. 

I . .. 



A/9892 
English 
Page 14 

6. Decides to allocate to the Fund the sum of $US 200,000 from the regular 
budget of the United Nations for 1975; 

7. Expresses its aPPreciation of the efforts of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees; 

8. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations within the 
United !lations system to render all necessary assistance to the Secretary-General 
and the United Nations Council for Namibia in implementing the work programme of 
the Fund; 

9. Calls upon all specialized agencies and other organizations within the 
United Nat,ions system - in particular, the International Labour Organisation, the 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the World Health Organization, 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International 
Monetary Fund, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees and the United !lations Institute for Training and 
Research - to assist the Institute for Nani:tbia, particularly by providing 
specialists, lecturers and researchers; 

10. Decides, pending the entry into full operation of a comprehensive 
programme, that Namibians shall continue to be eligible for assistance through the 
United Nations Educational and Training Programme for Southern Africa and the 
United Nations Trust Fund for South Africa; 

11. Requests Member States to give consideration to the employment of 
~\Jamibians in their countries; 

12. Request~ the Secretary-General and the United Nations Council for Namibia 
to report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session on the implementation 
of the present resolution. 




