
















































UNITED NATIONS 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9850 
GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY ll November 1974 

ORIGINAL: El'IGLISH 

Twenty-ninth sessicn 
Agenda item 79 

SCALE OF ASSESSMENTS FOR THE APPORTIONiv!ENT OF 
THE EXPENS.ES OF THE UNITED NATIONS 

Report of the Fifth Ccrr~ittee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Hahmoud M. OSMAN (Egypt) 

l. The Fifth Committee considered agenda item 79, 8ntitled "Scale of assessments 
for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations: report of the Com~ittee 
on Contributions n, at its 1646th and l647th meetings, on 21 and 22 October 1974·. It 
had before it the report of the Committee on Contributions !J containing· the draft 
resolutions recommended by the Committee. 

2. In introducing the report 'of the Committee on Contributions, its Chairman 
stated that, in accordance with the decision of the Fifth Committee, 2/ the 
Committee on Contributions had. re-examined the question of.the per capita ceiling 
principle. It had studied the quesTion in detail, first reviewing the background 
leading to its establishment, its'practical effect on past scales of assessment 
and the views expressed by Member States in the Fifth Committee during the 
twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly. 

3. The Chairman recalled that the per capita ceiling principle had been 
implemented in full in all scales of assessment approved by the.General Assembly 
for the years 1956 to 1973. Durin(j that period, vhen the rate of assessment 
of the highest contributor had been gradually reduced from 33.33 per cent to 
31.52 per cent, a maximum of three Member States had benefited from the application 
of the principle of a per capita ceiling to their rates of assessment. In the 
soale for the 1974-1976 triennium, on the other hand (when the maximum contribution 
had been reduced to 25 per cent), the rates of assessment of five Member States 
would have been subject to the per capita ceiling principle had not three States -
Canada, Denmark and Swed~~ - waived its application. 

!/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. ll (A/9611). 

~Ibid., Twenty-eighth Sess~on, Annexes, agenda item 84, document A/9292, 
para. 17. 

74-30422 
/ ... 



--2-

4. The Committee on Contributions had studied tentative statistical projections 
of the relative impact on Member States of the drastic changes ;rhich had been taking 
place in the ;rorlu economy and considered the future consequences of the reduction 
in the maximum contribution to 25 per cent. It. had found that it ;ras probable 
that the rates of assessment of some eight or nine Member States might be subject 
to the per capita ceiling principle in the 1977-1979 scale and that this number was 
likely to increase in subsequent scales. The continued application of the 
principle in such circumstances would lead to an increasingly anomalous situation 
whereby States in the median or low per capita income groups would be required to 
bear the brunt of the decreasing contributions which countries with strong 
economies and high per capita incomes would be called upon to make. Such a 
situation would constitute a contradic+ion of the fundamental principle of capacity 
to pay, ;;hich ha.d led to the Committee's unanimous conclusion that the principle of 
per capita ceilings should be abolished in the formulation of ·ruture scales. 

5. At its thirty-fourth session, the Committee had also ~onsidered the 
exceptionally wide-ranging chqnges that had taken place in the ~ational economies 
and in the capacity to pay of many Member States and had noted that such changes 
would give rise to steep individual increases in the next triennial scale. It 
recalled the provision under rule 160 of the rules of procedure of the General 
Assembly that the scale o~ assessments, when once fixed by ~he Assembly, should 
not be subject to general revision for at least three years unless it was clear that 
there had been substantial changes in relative capacity to pay, and it explored the 
advisability of recommending the adoption of a revised scale of assessments for 
one or two two-year periods, as a transitional measure, with effect from 1976. 
However, for the reasons given in paragraph 15 of its report, 11 the Committee had 
concluded that a scale based on a triennial period 1<as preferable and that the 
recently adopted 1974-1976 scale had best be retained. · Nevertheless, the 
Committee had been emphatic in its vie1< that, despite its customary practice of 
modirying drastic shifts bet1<een scales, changes in national economies had been 
such that, in the application of the basic principle of capacity to pay, 
substantial increases in individual rates of assessment 1<ould be called for in the 
next scale. In response to a statement made in the course of the debate 
concerning the lag effect of the. existing system for adjusting assessments to 
reflect unprecedented changes in economic conditions (the scale for 1974, 1975 and 
1976, for example, had been based on national accounts data for 1969, 1970 and 
1971), the Chairman added that, given the magnitude of the changes which had taken 
place in 1974, it 1<ould not be realistic for the Committee to conduct a revie1< of 
the scale at its 1975 session, when statistical data could only be made available 
for 1972 and 1973. Moreover, the steep increases in individual assessments to 
which he had referred represented projections based on very tentative and 
inadequate data which could not be used in the formulation of a new scale. 

6. The problem of taking into account differential price changes in relation to 
exchange rates in order to moderate the effect of inordinately sharp price 
movements on national income data had also been considere~ by the Committee. In 
the light of the major economic changes which had taken place, the problem 1<ould 
require further study. 

l/ Ibid., Twenty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 11 (A/9611). 

I . .. 



-3-

7. Other matters with which the Committee on Contributions had dealt included 
rates of assessn:ent of certain non-rr..ember States, the collection of contributions 5 
and scales of assessment of the specialized agencies. At its thirty-fifth session 
in 1975, the Corrmittee intended to study the desirability of establishing uniform 
regulations to govern the contributions by non-member States to all United i!ations 
activities, including conferences, in vrhich they participated, at which tirre it 
would also exaTiine the nature of the material and advice it made available to the 
specialized a~encies in responding to requests from such agencies. 

8. Since. the Committee 1 s thirty-fourth session, three new States - Bangladesh, 
Grenada and Guinea-Bissau - had been admitted to membership in the Organization. 
In accorclance with past practice; the Corr,niittee ,.muld consider rates of assessment 
for those Member States at its thirty-fifth session in 1975. 

9. Draft resolution B, as recommended by the Committee on Contributions in 
paragraph 31 of its report, 3/ .the Chairman concluded, required amendment to 
reflect Guinea-Bissau's new status as a Member State. In that connexion, the 
Fifth Committee, at its l647th meeting, decided that, in accordance with a proposal 
made by the representatives of Brazil and Hungarv. no action would b<" t.aken on 
draft resolution B on the understanding t:1at the Corrmittee on Contributions would 
take up the question of Guinea-Bissau's contribution for 1974, 1975 and l976 at 
its thirty--fifth session. 

10. In the discussion that followed, the Committee on Contributions was praised 
for the objective manner 1n which it had carried out its work and for its excellent 
and succinct report. 

11. Referring to the per capita ceiling principle, many'representatives supported 
the recomnendation of the Committee on Contributions that the principle be abolished, 
stating that its abolition strengthened the overriding principle of capacity to pay. 
The application of a principle .of a per capita• ceiling might have been justified 
at one time. Develupments, however, had rendered it anachronistic and obsolete, 
and its continued application was likely to lead to substantial deviations in 
capacity to pay. Though Canada, Denmark and Sweden were to be commended for their 
voluntary waiver of th~ per capita ceiling in the scale for 1974-1976, it was 
pointed out that the reduction in the maximum contribution to 25 per cent had given 
a new dimension to the issue, the permanent solution of which could not be based on 
voluntary action by Members. The view was expressed that the financial burden of 
assessments should not be transferred to those Member States in the median and low 
per capita income groups and that as developed and developing countries benefited 
f~om increased economic growth and a rapid expansion in cash resources they should 
also be .prepared to assume a proportionate increase in their assessments. 

12. A few representatives, on the other hand, opposed abolition of the _:<J_eE."apita 
ceiling principle for the reason that per capita income was only one of several 
factors that determined the nature of the economy of a country and its capacity 
to pay, such as the relationship of population to the area of a country, technology, 
industry, infrastructure, agriculture and literacy. It was pointed out that a 

/ ... 



-4-

strong economy and a high per capita income coul"d~ot be considered in isolation 
and to the exclusion of development requireme~ts of a country; that an economy 
based on one depletable source of income was ephemeral and subject to risk; and 
that undue emphasis should not be placed on actual cash resources, but on the 
structure and soundness of a country 1 s economy. Those representatives stated, 
therefore, that they could not accept any additional financial obligations which 
wer': based.solely on per capita income or which did not take into consideration 
the nor~s usually followed and the factors constantly observed in assessing the 
economy of the develoning countries. One representative reserved the rie;ht to 
re-open the qnestion of the use of the per capita ceiling and capacity to pay 
principl·es at an appropriate time, stating that both were fraught with problems. 

13. In connexion with the time-span of the scale of assessments, several 
representatives agreed with the arguments advanced by the Committee on Contributions 
in paragraphs 15 and 16 of its report. 3/ 'I'hough noting that economic changes had 
been substantial' t.hey nevertheless considered that the retention of a scale based 
on a triennia·l period would allow the Committee to base its recommendations for the 
1977-1979 scale on comprehensive statistical data for the years 1972, 1973 and 
1974. That would allow for a more reliable averaging of economic changes. Some 
representatives, hovever, pointed out that procedures should be adapted to new 
circumstances and that the possibility of a change in the existing cycle of the 
scale to a one-year, two-year or r::ossibly four-year period should not be excluded 
if current world trends continued" and changes in relative capacity to pay became 
increasingly evident. 

14. Referring to the effects of the changed economic situation and to inflationary 
pressures on. future scales of assessment·, a number of representatives agreed that a 
review of the low per capita income allowance formula should be undertaken by the 
Committee on Contributions. It was pointed out that the elements which had formed 
the basis for the existing formula had altered sharply since the scale for 
1974-1976 had been established and that the possibility of an adjusted formula 
should be examined by the Committee in connexion with its next review of the 
scale. 

15. The ~tudy of the problem of taking into account differential price changes in 
relation to exchange rates, to which the Committee on Contributions had made 
reference in its report, 4/ was supported by several representatives. The Chairman 
of the Committee on Contributions, in responding to a q~estion raised in that 
connexion, explained that the basic problem was that, since all national products 
were expressed in·United States dollars for the purpose of assessment, changes in 
the relation of statistical rates of assessment of particular countries could occur 
both because of relative clcanges in the real national product and because of 
relative changes in the price component of the national product. The price 
component itself, as used by the Committee, consisted of two factors: changes in 
domestic prices and changes in exchange rates in terms of the United States dollar. 
Whether exchange rates were fixed or fluctuating, the conversio.n of national 
income estim~tes wa~ conceived as a continuing operation~ since it was the 
Committee's practice to convert individual countries' national currency estimates 

IV Ibid., para. 17. 
I . .. 



-5-

of national income into United States dollars at exchange, rates which prevailed 
during the periods to which the estimates referred. As to the consideration by the 
Committee of groups of countries, that had no effect on individual assessments, 
which were based on data related to each country alone. Grouping countries by 
level of per capita income was for the purpose of comparative analysis by the 
Committee. 

16. In making reference to scales of assessment of specialized agencies, one 
representative recalled that the General Assembly, by resolution 311 B (IV) of 
24 November 1949 had authorized the Committee on Contributions to recommend or 
advise on the scale of contributions for a specialized agency if so requested by 
that agency. In the case of those agencies whose scales were based on principles 
applicable to the United Nations, the Committee on Contributions should be prepared 
to give its advisory opinion. He hoped, therefore, that the Committee would 
reconsider its position at its thirty-fifth ·session. Those views were endorsed by 
another representative, who requested the Committee to include in its report 
observations on the extent to which the specialized agencies had taken action to 
harmonize their scales with that of the United Nations, as requested by the General 
Assembly. 

17. In the course of their interventions, certain representatives drew the 
attention of the Secretariat to the fact that as complete and up-to-date 
information as possible on the foreign indebtedness of Member States should be made 
available to the Committee on Contributions for its next review of the scale.· Other 
representatives reiterated the need for the Committee to take into account the 
effects of war and natural disasters. 

18. At its l647th meeting, the Fifth Committee voted on draft resolution A 
recommended by the Committee on Contributions in its report. 5/ The draft 
resolution was adopted ty 71 votes to 5, with 14 ab~tentions Tsee para. 19 below). 
The representative of Zaire stated that his vote might have been counted twice, 
pointing out that he had, in fact, voted in favour of the draft resolution. 

RECOMI1ENDATION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

19. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

. 
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of 

the expenses of the United Nations 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 238 (III) of 18 November 1948, 582 (VI) of· 
21 December 1951, 665 (VII) of 5 December 1952, 876 A (IX) of 4 December 1954, 
1137 (XII) of 14 October 1957 and 2961 D (XXVII) of 13 December 1972, 

'}_/ Ibid., para. 31. 

I ... 



-6-

~Recalling further the decision of the Fifth Committee ~ which it endorsed at 
its 2164th plenary meeting on 9 November 1973, 

Noting the recommendation of the Committee on Contributions on the per capita 
ceiliqg·principle, as contained in the report on its thirty-fourth session, II 

Decides to abolish the per capita ceiling principle in the formulation and 
establishment of rates of assessment, commencing with the scale for the 1977-1979· 
triennium. 

£1 Ibid., Twenty-eighth Session, Annexes, agenda item 84, document A/9292, 
para. 17. 

I/ Ibid., Twenty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 11 (A/9611). 




