
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9866 
22 November 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 55 

IMPORTANCE OF THE UNIVERSAL REALIZATION OF THE RIGHT 
OF PEOPLES TO SELF-DETERMINATION AND OF THE SPEEDY 
GRANTING OF INDEPEHDEI'ICE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND 
PEOPLES FOR THE EFFECTIVE GUARANTEE AND OBSERVANCE 

OF HUMAN RIGHTS 

Report of the Third CommittEe 

Rapporteur: Mr. Dietrich von KYAW (Federal Republic of Germany) 

COI'JTENTS 

Paragraphs 

I. INTRODUCTION . . . 1 - 4 
II. CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTION 5 - 8 

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE 9 

74-32138 

Page 

2 

2 

6 

/ ... 



A/9866 
English 
Page 2 

I. HJTRODUCTION 

l. The General Assembly, at its 2237th plenary meeting on 21 September 1974, 
allocated to the Third Committee agenda item 55, entitled "Importance of the 
universal realization of the right of peoples to self-determination and of the 
'speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples for the effective 
guarantee and observance of human rights 11 • 

2. The Committee considered the item at its 208lst to 2090th meetings, from 
4 November to 14 November. The summary records of these meetini!S 
(A/C.3/SR.208l-2090) contain the views of representatives of Member States. 

3. The Committee had before it: 

(a) A report of the Secretary-General, prepared in accordance with 
paragraph 10 (a) of General Assembly resolution 3118 (XXVIII) of 12 December 1973, 
which contained information on the action taken in the implementation of the 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations by the specialized agencies and 
international institutions associated with the United Nations (A/9638 and Add.l, 
Add.l/Corr.l and Add.2-5). 

(b) A report of the Secretary-General, urepared in accordance with General 
Assembly resolution 3070 (XXVIII) of 30 November 1973, which contained information 
received from States on action taken in compliance with the resolution (A/9667 and, 
Add.l). 

4. At the 
Rights made 

208lst meeting, on ~~ November, the Director of the Division of Human 
an introductory statement on the item. 

II. CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTION 

5. At the 2087th meeting, on ll November, the representative of the United 
Republic of Tanzania introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2128) entitled 
"Importance of the universal realization of the right of peoples to self-
determination and of the speedy r:ranting of independence to colonial countries 
and peoples for the effective r;uarantee and observance of human rights", sponsored 
by Afghanistan, Algeria, Burundi, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gambia, 
Ghana~ Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guya;;:-Jordan 1 Kenya~ Kuwait 1 the Libyan Arab 
Republic~ Madagascar, Mauritania~ Morocco 5 the Niger, Ni~eria, Rwanda, Sierra 
Leone, Somalia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, the-united Republic 
of Cameroon, the United Republic of Tanzania, Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zaire. 
Subsequently Bahrain, Chad, Dahomey, Gabon, the German Democratic Republic, Grenada, 
Lebanon~ Malaysia, Mali, Qatar) Senegal, Topo, Trinidad and Tobago, the United 
Arab Emirates, the iJPi;'er Volta and Zambia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

I . .. 



A/9866 
English 
Page 3 

5. At the 2090th meetinf(, on. 14 !Tovember, the Committee had before it a revised 
draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2128/Rev.l) submitted by the same sponsors, 
Eubsequently joined by Bangladesh, the Congo and Liberia. The text was as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Reaffirl'ling its faith in resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, which 
contains the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and Peoples and in the programme of action for the full implementation of 
that Declaration, contained in resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, 

"Recallin~., inter alia, its resolutions 2588 B (XXIV) of 15 December 1969, 
2787 (XXVI) of 6 December 1971, 2955 (XXVII) of 13 December 1972, 
2963 E (XXVII) of 13 December 1972, 3059 (XXVIII) and 3070 (XXVIII) of 
30 November 1973, and other relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 

"Noting with appreciation the Secretary-General's reports A/9638 and 
A/9667, 

;'Noting with satisfaction the assurances given by the Government of 
Portugal to fulfil its obligations under the United Nations Charter and to 
comply with United Nations resolutions relevant to the right of the peoples 
under Portuguese administration to self-determination and independence, 

"Indignant at the continued repression and the inhuman and degrading 
treatment inflicted on peoples still under colonial and foreign domination 
and alien subjugation, especially on individuals detained or imprisoned as 
a result of the struggle for self-determination and independence, 

"Reaffirming that the independence of Southern Rhodesia should not be 
negotiated with the illegal regime but with the authentic and recognized 
representative of the Rhodesian people, 

"Mindful of its responsibilitY to evolve all possible measures which will 
enable oppressed peoples to attain independence and self-determination and, 
in this regard, deploring the obstructive e.ttitude of certain Member States, 

"Recognizing the imperative need to put an early end to colonial rule, 
foreign domination and alien subjugation, 

"1. Reaffirms the inalienable rip-ht of all peoples under colonial and 
foreign domination and alien subJugation to self-determination, freedom and 
independence in conformity with resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations; 

11 2. Renews its call to all States to recognize the right to 
self-determination and independence of all peoples subject to colonial and 
foreign domination and alien subjugation and to offer them moral, material 

/ ... 



A/9866 
English 
Page 4 

and other forms of assistance in their struggle to exercise fully their 
inalienable right to self-determination and independence; 

"3. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the peoples' struggle for liberation 
from colonial and foreign domination and alien subjugation by all available 
means, including armed struggle; 

"4. Demands full respect for the basic human rights of all individuals 
detained or imprisoned as a result of their struggle for self-determination 
and independence and strict respect for article 5 of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights under which no one shall be subjected to torture, 
or to cruel inhuman or degrading treatment, and their immediate release; 

"5. \'elcomes the recognition by the Government of Portugal of the right 
of all the peoples under its colonial administration to self-determination 
and independence and for the initiatives already taken in this regard:. 

"6. Urges the Government of Portugal to ensure that the process which 
will enable peoples still under its colonial administration to achieve 
self-determination and independence be accomplished without undue delay; 

"'7. Strongly condemns all Governments which do not recognize the right 
to self-determination and independence of peoples under colonial and foreign 
domination and alien subjugation, notably the peoples of Africa and the 
Palestinian people; 

"8. Further stronfl:ly condemns the policies of those members of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization and those countries whose military·, economic, 
sporting or political relations with the racist regimes of southern African 
and elsewhere encourage these regimes to persist in their suppression of the 
aspirations of peoples for self-determination and independence; 

''9. Calls upon these countries to reconsider their policies and to sever 
all links with the racist regimes of South Africa and. Southern Rhodesia; 

HlO a Renews its appreciation to Governments~ United Nations agencies, 
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations for their efforts in 
extending various forms of assistance to peoples in dependent Territories 
and appeals to them to increase such assistance; 

"11. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized 
agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system in working 
out measures for the provision of increased international assistance to the 
peoples of colonial Territories; 

"12. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the 
implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its 
thirtieth session." 

I . .. 



A/9866 
English 
Page 5 

7. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Republic of Tanzania, 
on behalf of the sponsors, orally revised operative paragraph 6 of the revised 
draft resolution by adding the words 11 continue to 11 be:fore the word "ensure" and 
the words 

11
0f decolonization 11 after the word "process", and by deleting the word 

11 undue 11 • 

8. At the same meeting, in compliance with a request by the representative of 
Uruguay, the Committee voted separately on operative paragraphs 3, 8, 9 and on the 
revised draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2128/Rev.l) as orally revised as follows: 

(a) Operative paragraph 3 was retained by 73 votes co 10, with 
18 abstentions; 

(b) Operative paragraph 8 was retained by 73 votes to 9, with 
20 abstentions; 

(c) Operative paragraph 9 was retained by 76 votes to 8, with 
21 abstentions; 

(d) The revised draft resolution as a whole, as orally revised, was adopted 
by a roll-call vote of 104 to 1, with 19 abstentions (see paragraph 9 below). 
The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central 
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Con~o, Costa 
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, 
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, India, 
Indonesia, Iran" Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, 
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, J'.Ticaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan.., 
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire , Z811lbi a. 

Against: Israel. 

Abstaining: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, El Salvador, Finland, France, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, 
Malawi, Netherlands, Norway, Swaziland, Sweden, United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

I . .. 

• 



A/9866 
English 
Page 6 

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE 

9. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Importance of the universal realization of the right 
of neoples to self-determination and of the sneedy 
granting of independence to colonial countries and 
peoples for the effective guarantee and observance 

of human rights 

The General Assembly, 

Reaffirming its faith in resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, which 
contains the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples, and in the programme of action for the full implementation of that 
Declaration, contained in resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, 

Recalling, inter alia, its resolutions 2588 B (XXIV) of 15 December 1969, 
2187 (XXVI) of 6 December 1971, 2955 (XXVII) of 12 December 1912, 2963 E (XXVII) 
of 13 December 1972, 3059 (XXVIII) and 3010 (XXVIII) of 30 November 1913, and 
the relevallt resolutions of the Security Council, 

Noting with appreciation the reports of the Secretary-General, 11 

Noting with satisfaction the assurances given by the Government of Portugal 
that it will fulfil its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations and 
comply with United Nations resolutions relevant to the right of the peoples under 
Portuguese administration to self-determination and independence, 

Indignant at the continued repression and the inhuman and degrading treatment 
inflicted on peoples still under colonial and foreign domination and alien 
subjugation, especially on individuals detained or imprisoned as a result of tbe 
struggle for self-determination and independence, 

Reaffirming that the independence of Southern Rhodesia should not be 
negotiated with the illegal regime but with the authentic and recognized 
representative of the Rhodesian people; 

Mindful of its responsibility to evolve all possible measures which will 
enable oppressed peoples to attain independence and self-determination and, in 
this regard, deploring the obstructive attitude of certain Member States, 

Recognizing the imperative need to put an early end to colonial rule, 
foreign domination and alien subjugation, 

11 A/9638 and Add.l, Add.l/Corr.l and Add.2-5, A/9667 and Add.l. 

I ... 



A/9866 
English 
Page 7 

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of all peoples under colonial and 
foreign domination and alien subjugation to self-determination, freedom arid 
independence in conformity with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and other 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations:. 

2. Renews its call to all States to recognize the right to self-determination 
and independence of all peoples subject to colonial and foreign domination and alien 
subjugation and to offer them moral, material and other forms of assistance in 
their struggle to exercise fully their inalienable rippt to self-determination and 
independence; 

3. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the peoples' struggle for liberation from 
colonial and foreign domination and alien subjugation by all available means, 
including armed struggle' 

4. Demands full respect for the basic human rights of all individuals 
detained or imprisoned as a result of their struggle for self-determination and 
independence and strict respect for article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights under which no one shall be subjected to torture, or to cruel inhuman or 
degrading treatment, and their immediate release; 

5. Felcomes the recognition by the Government of Portugal of the right of' 
all the peoples under its colonial administration to self-determination and 
independence and for the initiatives already taken in this regard; 

6. Urges the Government of Portugal to continue to ensure that the process 
of decolonization, which will enable peoples still under its colonial 
administration to achieve self-determination and independence, be accomplished 
without delay; 

7. Strongly condemns all Governments which do not recognize the right to 
self-determination and independence of peoples under colonial and foreign 
domination and alien subjugation, notably the peoples of Africa and the Palestinian 
people; 

8. Further strongly condemns the policies of those members of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization and those countries whose military, economic, sporting 
or political relations with the racist regimes of southern African and elsewhere 
encourage these regimes to persist in their suppression of the aspirations of 
peonles for self-determination and independence; 

9. Calls upon these countries to reconsider their policies and to sever all 
links with the racist regimes of South Africa and Southern Rhodesia; 

10. Renews its appreciation to Governments, United Nations agencies, 
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations for their efforts in extending 
various forms of assistance to peoples in dependent Territories and appeals to them 
to increase such assistance; 

I .. . 



A/9866 
Enslish 
Page 8 

ll. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized 
agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system in working out 
measures for the provision of increased international assistance to the peoples of 
colonial Territories; 

12. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation 
of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session . 

• 




