
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9972 
111 December 1974 

ORIGI'lAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 36 

II1PLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE STRENGTHEND!G 
OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Hr. Antonio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

l. The item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on the Strengthening of 
International Security: report of the Secretary·-General" was included in the 
provisional agenda of the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly in 
accordance with resolution 3185 (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973. 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee for consideration and report. 

3. The First Committee considered the item at its 2040th to 2044th meetings, from 
10 to 13 December. 

4. The First Committee had before it the report of the Secretary-General (A/9696) 
submitted in accordance with paragraph 8 of resolution 3185 (XXVIII). The annex 
to the report contained a list of additional documents relating to this item, 
1<hich had been issued since the consideration of the subject by the General 
Assembly at its twenty-eighth session. In addition, a letter dated 
ll November 1974 from the Permanent Representatives of Czechoslovakia and the 
German Democratic Republic to the Secretary-General was also circulEted 
(A/C.l/L.l050). 

5. At the 204lst meeting, on 10 December, the representative of Algeria 
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.706) on becalf of Afghanistan, Algeria, 
Brazil, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Madagascar 5 Malaysia, Morocco, Nigeria, Peru, 
Somalia, the Syrian Arab Republic, Yugoslavia ~nd zruTilbia, subsequ~ntly joined by 
Bulgaria, the Congo, Cyprus, Egypt,-Grenad~,-Guyana, Mongolia, Nepal, Poland, 
Romania, Senegal, the Sudan, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates and the 
United Republic of Cameroon. 

74-35930 I ... 



A/9972 
English 
P<:g:e 2 

6. At its 204~tb meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted the draft 
resolution (A/C.l/L.706) by 79 votes to 1, with 12 abstentions (see para. 7 below). 

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST CONMITTEE 

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Implementation of the Declaration on the Strengthening 
of International Security 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the item entitled "Implementation oi' the Declaration on the 
Strengthening of International Security", 

Bearing in mind the Declaration on the Strengthening of International 
Security ~/ and recalling relevant resolutions of the General Assembly concerning 
the implementation of the Declaration, 

Noting with grave concern the continuing existence of focal points of crises 
and tensions in various regions, endangering international peace and security~ 

Emphasizing that acts of aggression, the threat or use of force, foreign 
occupation and alien domination, and in particular attempts to interfere in 
internal affairs of other States, as well as the existence of colonialism, 
neo-colonialism, racial discrimination and apartheid, remain the main obstacles 
to the strengthening of international peace and security of all States, 

\o/elcoming, however, encouraging trends in relations be-';ween States at the 
bilateral, regional and multilateral levels aiming at promoting peaceful coexistence 
and settlement of international disputes in accordance with the Charter of the 
United Nations, 

Emphasizing the close link existing between the strengthening of international 
security~ disarmament, decolonization, economic development and the need for a ~ore 
intensive international effort to narrow the widening gap between the developed and 
the developing countries, and stressing, in this connexion, the importance of the 
resolutions adopted at its sixth special session, 

Deeply convinced of the need constantly to strengthen the peace-keeping and 
the peace--making role of the United Nations, 

Convinced also that the United Nations should play a~ore positive role in 
promoting improvement of the international situation and a lessening of threats to 
international peace and security, and that it can become a useful forum of 
universalization of positive achievements in relations among States, 

!/ General Assembly resolution 2734 (XXV). 
/ ... 



A/9972 
English 
Page 3 

1. Solemnly reaffirms all the principles and provlslons contained in the 
Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security and urgently appeals to 
all States to implement and adhere to all the provisions of the Declaration 
unswervingly and without delay, to broaden the scope of detente to cover the 
entire world, to stop the arms race, as well as to take practical steps to reduce 
armaments, and to reaffirm the principles contained in the Declaration on Friendly 
Relations among States 5) as the basis of relations among all States; 

2. Reaffirms also that all States have the right to participate on a basis 
of equality in the settlement of major international problems in accordance with 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations so that peace and security will 
be based on effective respect for the sovereignty and independence of each State 
and the inalienable right of each people to determine its own destiny freely and 
without outside interference, coercion or pressure; 

3. Reaffirms that any measure or pressure directed against any State while 
exercising its sovereign right freely to dispose of its natural resources 
constitutes a flagrant violation of the right of self-determination of peoples and 
the principle of non-intervention, as set forth in the Charter, which, if pursued, 
could constitute a threat to international peace and security; 

4. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples under alien domination 
to achieve self-determination and independence and appeals to all States to 
implement the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples 3/ and the other resolutions of the United Nations on the total elimination 
of colonialism, racism and apartheid; 

5. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General, ~ requests him to 
submit to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session a report on the 
implementation of the Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security 
and decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session the item 
entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on the Strengthening of International 
Security". 

5) General Assembly resolution 2625 (XXV). 

1/ General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV). 
~ A/9696. 




