
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9960 ' .z,"-", I 
17 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 73 

PROGRA}~ BUDGET FOR THE BIENNIUM 1974-1975 

R2port of the Fifth Committee 

Rapporteur: ~1r. Mahmoud M. OSMAN (Egypt) 

1. By its resolution 3195 (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973, the General Assembly 
approved a total appropriation of $540,473,000 under the various expe"diture 
sections of the programme budget for the biennium 1974-1975 and estinates of income 
from various sources during the same period in a total amount of $92,61•6,000 or a 
net assessment level of $447,827,000. 

2. Under agenda 
Secretary-General 
related report of 
(A/9608/Add.l6). 
appropriation for 
trends during the 
of the balance of 

item 73, the Fifth Committee examined the progress report of the 
on the programme budget for the biennium 1974-1975 !/ and the 
the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
In his report, the Secretary-Genera::!.. requested an additional 
the biennium as a whole, based on developments and expenditure 
first eight months of the biennium, and projections in respect 
the biennium. 

3. In additionjrevised estimates for various appropriation sections arising trom 
decisions taken during the current session were also examined by the Committee on 
the basis of subsequent reports of the Secretary-General and of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions. 

4. rrhe Fifth Connnittee recommends an increase in the e;ross appropriation approved 
by the General Assembly in resolution 3195 (XXVIII) of $65,560,0CO to $6o6,033,CCO 
and an increase in the total estimated income of $7,873,000 to $1G0,519,000. 

5. T'he views expressed during the discussion of the special subjects under this 
agenda item are reflected in the SUILmary records of the Fifth Committee for the 
meetings jndicated in the text whicb follm;s in respect of each sub,ject. 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. 6 (A/9606). 

74-35918 I ... 



A/9960 
Enr:lish 
Pace 2 

Standards of accommodation for official travel of 
United Nations staff by air 

6. In paragraph 2 of General Assembly resolution 3198 (XXVIII) of 
18 December 1973, which deals with the standards of accommodation for official 
travel of United Nations staff by air, the Secretary-General was asked to report 
annually to the Assembly on the implementation of its decision. 

7. In his report to the current session (A/C.5/1593) on the implementation of 
resolution 3198 (XXVIII) during the period l January to 30 June 1974, the 
Secretary-General stated that the decision of the Assembly had been strictly 
implemented with the exception of four special instances where first-class travel 
had been authorized; one exception was made on medical grounds and three others 
for officials whose duties and responsibilities were recognized as equivalent to 
those of Assistant Secretary-General through payment of a special post allowance 
or special duties allowance. 

8. At the 1635th meeting,. the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions stated that the Committee was satisfied that 
the Secretary-General had strictly interpreted the Assembly's decision in 
resolution 3198 (XXVIII). He suggested that the Secretary-General might continue 
to submit annual reports on this subject only if he wished to call attention to 
significant exceptions. 

9. After a short discussion the Committee agreed, without objection, to a 
proposal made by the representative of the United States that paragraph 2 of 
resolution 3198 (XXVIII) should in future be interpreted to mean that the annual 
report of the Secretary-General on this subject could be an oral rather than a 
written report. 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COM~ITTEE 

10. At its 1635th meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, without objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should take note of the report of the Secretary-
General contained in document A/C.5/l593 (see para. 147 (a) below). 

Staffing of the Office of the Under-Secretary-General 
for Special Political Affairs 

11. In his report on this subject (A/C.5/l602), the Secretary-General proposed the 
reclassification of a post currently filled at the Assistant Secretary-General 
level to the Under-Secretary-General level in the Office for Special Political 
Affairs. 

12. In paragraph 3 of his report (A/C.5/l602), the Secretary-General stated that it 
was in recognition of the substantial increase in the work-loaa incumbent upon the 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 3 

post, which seemed likely to continue indefinitely, that he was proposing the 
reclassification which amounted to a resto.ation of the establishment of the Office 
to its original strength prior to 1972. At the same time, he proposed to 
discontinue the post of Special Representative of the Secretary-General to the 
Geneva Peace Conference which h~d been established on an ad hoc basis in January 
of the current year. The additional cost involved to cover the proposed 
reclassification would, at current rates, be in the amount of $5,000 per annum. 
To the extent this requirement could not be met from within the existing 
appropriations, an increased provision would be requested in due course. 

13. In an oral statement before the Committee, the Chairman of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions said that the Advisory Committee 
had no objection to the proposal of the Secretary-General. 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

14. At its l635th meeting, the Committee decided, without objection, to recommend 
that the General Assembly should: 

(a) Take note of the report of the Secretary-General in document A/C.5/l602; 

(b) Approve the proposal appearing in paragraph 3 of that report, account 
being taken of the comments of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions, and it being understood that the Secretary-General would seek 
the necessary appropriation in his report on programme budget performance for the 
biennium 1974-1975 (see para. 147 (b) below). 

Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on the use of 
experts and consultants in the United Nations 

15. At its twenty-eighth session, the General Assembly endorsed a decision taken 
by the Fifth Committee ~ to defer until the twenty-ninth session its 
consideration of the report of the Joint Inspection Unit on the use of experts 
and consultants in the United Nations (A/9112 and Corr.l). 

16. In addition to the report of the Joint Inspection Unit, the Committee had 
before it for its consideration of this item the comments of the Secretary-General 
(A/9112/Add.l) on the Inspectors' report, the related observations of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/9112/Add.2) and a report of 
the Secretary-General (A/C.5/16ll) on the measures which had so far been taken with 
a view to implementing the recommendations of the Inspectors as contained in their 
report. 

17. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions introduced that Committee's report (A/9ll2/Add.2) at the l635th meeting, 

2/ Ibid., Twenty-eighth Session, Annexes, agenda item 79, document 
A/9450/Add.l, para. 90 (g). 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 4 

at which time he called attention, inter alia, to the views of the Advisory 
Committee on the main recommendations of the Inspectors as set forth on pages 81 
and 82 of their report (A/9112 and Corr.l), as well as on the related comments of 
the Secretary-General (A/9112/Add.l). 

18. At the 1637th meeting, the representative of Poland introduced, on behalf of 
Nigeria and Poland, the following draft paragraph (A/C.5/L.ll73) for inclusion 
in the Committee's report to the General Assembly on this subject: 

"The Fifth Committee decided, in connexion with the implementation of 
the recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit and of the related comments 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, to 
request the Secretary-General: 

(a) To issue comprehensive administrative directives which would include: 

(i) A clear definition of the terms "expert" and "consultant"; 

(ii) The requirement that experts and consultants should be recruited 
only from highly qualified candidates in the specific field in 
question and should possess adequate recommendations from an 
institution or recognized authority in that field; 

(iii) The principle.that outside expertise should be resorted to primarily 
for specific assignments and should not be used for assignments of 
a long-term nature for which provision should be sought within the 
established staff of the Secretariat; 

(iv) The principle that experts and consultants should be appointed on 
a wide geographical basis; 

(v) Clear and uniform procedures for the selection, appointment and 
remuneration of experts and for the evaluation of their 
performance; 

(vi) The establishment of a roster of candidates for experts and 
consultants in the United Nations; 

(b) To include drafting ability among the basic criteria for appointment 
to Professional posts in the Secretariat; 

(c) To report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session on the 
measures taken and results achieved pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) 
above; 

(d) Pending action by the General Assembly on that report, to programme 
budgetary outlays in his proposed programme budget for the biennium 1976-1977, 
in such a manner that over-all expenditure for outside expertise does not 
exceed 1 per cent of the total provision for salaries." 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 5 

19. At the 1638th meeting, the representative of Brazil, on behalf of Algeria, 
Austria, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Germany 
(Federal Republic of) and the Upper Volta, introduced a draft paragraph 
(A/C.5/L.ll74) for inclusion in the Committee's report. The delegation of 
Trinidad and Tobago later joined the list of sponsors. The proposed text read 
as follows: 

"The Fifth Committee considered the reports on the use of experts and· 
consultants in the United Nations submitted by the Joint Inspection Unit 
(A/9112), the Secretary-General (A/9112/Add.l and A/C.5/1611) and the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/9112/Add.2). 
The Fifth Committee concurred with the recommendations of the Joint 
Inspection Unit, as modified by the related comments and observations of the 
Advisory Committee, and decided to request the Secretary-General to take them 
fully into account in the preparation and the implementation of the 
comprehensive system of policies, procedures and practices he undertook to 
issue in the near future under the form of codified administrative 
instructions applicable to all departments and offices of the Secretariat. 

"In this connexion, the Fifth Committee stressed that: 

(a) The Secretary-General should ensure that expenditure for consultancy 
services for the biennium 1974-1975 be maintained within the approved 
appropriation, and that no supplementary estimates be presented; 

{b) The estimates under this heading in future biennial budgets should 
be prepared with determined restraint, with a view to achieving substantial 
reductions in the funds requested for this field of activities; 

(c) Priority in the use of consultant services should be given to 
programmes more directly related to economic and social development. 

"Finally, the Fifth Committee took note of the stated intention of the 
Secretary-General to present, at the thirtieth session of the General 
Assembly, a follow-up report on the implementation of the new system." 

20. At the 1639th meeting, the representative of Poland announced certain 
amendments to the two-Power draft text (A/C.5/L.ll73). The draft text, as revised 
(A/C.5/L.ll73/Rev.l), read as follows: 

"The Fifth Committee considered the reports on the use of experts and 
consultants in the United Nations submitted by the Joint Inspection Unit 
(A/9112), the Secretary-General (A/9112/Add.l and A/C.5/1611) and the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/9112/Add.2). 
The Fifth Committee concurred with the recommendations of the Joint Inspection 
Unit, as modified by the related comments and observations of the Advisory 
Committee, and decided to request the Secretary-General to take them fully 
into account in the preparation and the implementation of the comprehensive 
system of policies/procedures and practices he undertook to issue soon under 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 6 

the form of codified administrative instructions applicable to all departments 
and offices of the Secretariat. 

"In this connexion the Fifth Committee pointed out that these 
administrative instructions should include in particular: 

(i) A clear definition of the terms "expert" and "consultant"; 

(ii) The requirement that experts and consultants should be recruited only 
from highly qualified candidates in the specific field in question 
and should possess adequate recommendations from an institution or 
recognized authority in that field; 

(iii) The principle that outside expertise should be resorted to 
primarily for specific assignments and should not be used for 
assignments of a long-term nature for which provision ought to be 
sought within the established staff of the Secretariat; 

(iv) The principle that experts and consultants should be appointed on 
a wide geographical basis. 

"The Fifth Committee stressed also that: 

(a) The Secretary-General should ensure that expenditure for Consultancy 
services be maintained within the approved figure for 1974-75, and that no 
supplementary estimates be presented; 

(b) The estimates under this heading in future biennial budgets should be 
prepared with determined restraint, with a view to achieving substantial 
reductions and in an attempt to establish a more reasonable percentage 
relationship between expenditure for outside expertise and the budgetary 
provisions for salaries and common staff costs; 

(c) Due regard in the use of consultant services should be given to 
programmes more directly related to economic and social development. 

"Finally, the Fifth Committee took note of the stated intention of the 
Secretary-General to present, at the thirtieth session of the General Assembly, 
a follow-up report on the implementation of the new system." 

21. At the l640th meeting, the representative of Brazil stated that after 
consultation with the co-sponsors of the draft text in document A/C.5/L.ll74, it was 
agreed to delete the word "substantial" from subparagraph (b). 

22. With a view to avoiding a confrontation on the two draft proposals before the 
Committee (A/C.5/L.ll73/Rev.l and A/C.5/L.ll74), it was suggested that the 
Rapporteur prepare a draft text which would amalgamate those two draft proposals 
and be acceptable to the co-sponsors concerned. 

/ ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 7 

23. At the l64lst meeting, the Rapporteur introduced a draft text (A/C.5/L.ll75) 
which, as he stated, represented a compromise text but did not include the 
complete text of the previous drafts (for the draft text as finally adopted, 
see para. 30 below)• 

24. On behalf of the co-sponsors, Nigeria and Brazil then withdrew the draft 
proposals contained in documents A/C.5/L.ll73/Rev.l and A/C.5/L.ll74 respectively, 
on the understanding that the draft text introduced by the Rapporteur 
(A/C.5/L.ll75) was a compromise text and did not reflect completely the views of 
those delegations. 

25. In the new draft rext (A/C.5/L.ll75), paragraph 2 (c) read as follows: 

"The principle that experts and consultants should, when appropriate, 
be appointed from a wider and more representative number of countries than is 
being done at present and that these should include a larger number from the 
developing countries. 11 

26. Following a suggestion made by the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic 
and supported by other delegations, the representative of Peru, at the 
l642nd meeting, proposed the deletion of the words "when appropriate" from 
paragraph 2 (c) quoted above. 

27. The proposal of Peru was adopted by a roll-call vote of 28 to 15, with 
32 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Argentina, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Hungary, Kuwait, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Mexico, Mongolia, Nigeria, Peru, 
Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Sudan, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Iran, Netherlands, Niger, 
Philippines, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, Upper Volta. 

Abstaining: Algeria, Bolivia, Burma, Chad, Chile, Egypt, Finland, Greece, 
Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Morocco, 
New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Portugal, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, 
Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Cameroon, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

28. The draft text in document A/C.5/L.ll75, as amended, was then adopted by 
the Committee by consensus (see para. 30 below). 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 8 

29. The comments made by delegations in the course of the debate on this item, 
as well as the reservations expressed in respect of some aspects of the draft 
text adopted by the Committee, are reflected in the summary records of the 
Committee (A/C.5/SR.l635-l642). 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COl-lMITTEE 

30. At its l642nd meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, by consensus, to include 
the following paragraphs in the present report: 

"1. The Fifth Committee considered the reports on the use of experts and 
consultants in the United Nations submitted by the Joint Inspection Unit 
(A/9112 and Corr.l), the Secretary-General (A/9112/Add.l and A/C.5/l6ll) and the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/9ll2/Add.2). 
The Fifth Committee concurred with the recommendations of the Joint Inspection 
Unit as modified by the related comments and observations of the Advisory 
Committee, and decided to request the Secretary-General to take them fully 
into account in the preparation and implementation of the comprehensive 
system of policies/procedures and practices he has undertaken to issue soon 
in the form of codified administrative instructions applicable to all 
departments and offices of the Secretariat. 

"2. In this connexion, the Fifth Committee pointed out that these 
instructions should include in particular: 

(a) The requirement that experts and consultants should be recruited 
only from highly qualified candidates in the specific field in question; 

(b) The criterion that outside expertise should be resorted to primarily 
for specific assignments and only for the services for which prov1s1on cannot 
be found within the established staff of the Secretariat for lack of 
specialized knowledge and/or expertise; 

(c) The principle that experts and consultants should be appointed from 
a wider and more representative number of countries than is being done at 
present and that these should include a larger number from the developing 
countries. 

"3. The Fifth Committee stressed also that: 

(a) The Secretary-General should ensure that expenditure for consultant 
services is maintained within the approved figure for 1974-1975 and that no 
supplementary estimates are presented; 

(b) The estimates under this heading in future biennial programme budgets 
should be prepared with determined restraint, with a view to achieving 
reductions in the funds requested for this field of activities; 

(c) Priority in the use of consultant services should be given to 
programmes more directly related to economic and social development. 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 9 

"4. Finally, the Fifth Committee took note of the stated intention of the 
Secretary-General to present, at the thirtieth session of the General AssemblY, 
a follow-up report on the implementation of the new system." 

Public information policies and activities 

31. For its consideration of this question the Committee had before it the report 
of the Secretary-General on puQlic information policies and activities (A/C.5/1605) 
as well as the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions (A/9608/Add.3) containing that Committee's comments on the former report. 

32. The above-mentioned reports of the Advisory Committee and of the Secretary-
General were introduced to the Committee at its 164lst meeting by the Chairman of 
the Advisory Committee and the Assistant Secretary·General for Public Information 
respectively. 

33. In paragraph 2 of its report (A/9608/Add.3), the Advisory Committee drew 
attention to "the dangers inherent in divorcing the discussion of public information 
activities and methodologies from consideration of the related financial 
implications, for such an approach may lead to decisions being taken without the 
General Assembly knowing what their implementation would cost". In this connexion, 
the Advisory Committee considered that the approach whereby the introduction of new 
activities and methodologies could be accompanied by the elimination or curtailment 
of other activities could usefully be applied to the entire area of public 
information. 

34. The statements and observations made by delegations in the course of the 
discussion of this question, as well as the comments made by the representatives 
of the Secretary-General in reply to queries raised, are reflected in the summary 
records of the Committee (A/C.5/SR.l641-l643). 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COI1MITTEE 

35. At its 1643rd meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, without objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should: 

(a) Take note of the report of the Secretary-General (A/C.5/l605); 

(b) Endorse the comments of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions contained in paragraph 2 of its report (A/9608/Add.3) 
(see para. 147 (c) below). 

I .. . 



A/9960 
English 
Page 10 

United Nations accommodation in Addis Ababa, 
Bangkok and Santiago 

36. For its consideration of this question, the Fifth Committee had before it the 
progress report of the Secretary-General (A/C.5/1596) on the construction of 
United Nations premises in Addis Ababa, Bangkok and Santiago, as well as the 
related report of the Advisory Committee 0n Administra~ive and Budgetary Questions 
(A/9608/Add.l4). 

37. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee introduced that Committee's report 
in an oral statement before the Fifth Committee. The statement of the Chairman of 
the Advisory Committee, as well as all comments made by delegations and by the 
representative of the Secretary-General in the course of the discussion of this 
question, are reflected in the summary record of the Committee (A/C.5/SR.l643). 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

38. At its 1643rd meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, without objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should take note of the report of the 
Secretary-General on United Nations accommodation in Addis Ababa, Bangkok and 
Santiago (A/C.5/1596) and of the related report of the Advisory Committee en 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/9608/Add.4) (see para. 147 (d) (i) below). 

39. At its 1690th meeting, the Committee considered a report of the Secretary-
General (A/C.5/1596/Add.l) in which he transmitted to the General Assembly further 
information on the progress of the construction in Santiago, and in which he dealt 
with the problem of additional office space required by the Economic Commission 
for Latin America. The related comments of the Advisory Corrmittee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions were also before the Committee 
(A/9608/Add.l4). 

40. In paragraphs 16 and 17 of his report, the Secretary-General requested that he 
be authorized to proceed with the construction in question utilizing the funds 
provided by the gift of the Government of the Netherlands and the $500,000 
appropriated in 1971 for the construction of an office building in Santiago. The 
amount of $500,000 appropriated in 1971 remained available. Accordingly, if the 
General Assembly approved his proposal, no additional appropriation would be 
required for the biennium 1974-1975. 

41. In paragraph 15 of its report (A/9608/Add.l4) the Advisory Committee stated 
that, subject to its observations and reservations as stated in paragraphs 7 to 14 
of the same report, it recommended that the General Assembly should approve the 
Secretary-General's proposal in document A/C.5/1596/Add.l. 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Pa~c ll 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

42. At its l690th meeting, the Fifth Committee, by 64 votes to 11, with 
3 abstentions, decided to recommend that the General Assembly should: 

(a) Take note of the addendum to the report of the Secretary-General 
(A/C.5/l596/Add.l); 

{b) Concur with the observations and recommendations of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions contained in paragraphs 7 to 
15 of its report (A/9608/Add.l4) (see para. 147 {d) (ii) below). 

Communications in the United Nations system 

43. At the twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly, the Fifth Committee 
had before it three reports on the rationalization and upgrading of the United 
Nations communications system: 

(a) A report on communications in the United Nations system by the Joint 
Inspection Unit, transmitted to the Assembly under cover of a note by the 
Secretary-General dated 10 July 1973 (A/9067); 

{b) The note by the Secretary-General embodying the observations of the 
Administrative Committee on Co-ordination on the above report (A/9067/Add.l); 

(c) The Secretary-General's report entitled "Survey of United Nations 
telecommunications and forecast of requirements for the period 1973-1983" 
(A/C. 5/1540). 

44. At its l613th meeting, on 29 November 1973, the Fifth Committee decided to 
defer consideration of the question of communications until the twenty-ninth 
session of the Assembly. 

45. When the Committee considered this question at its l644th and l645th 
meetings, in addition to the above-mentioned reports, it had before it a report 
of the Secretary-General in which he updated the survey and forecast of United 
Nations telecommunications (A/C.5/l540/Rev.l) to take account of developments 
since November 1973. The coiT~ents of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions on the abGve-mentioned reports were also before the 
Committee in document A/9608/Add.7. 

46. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee introduced that Committee's report 
at the l644th meeting, at which time he called attention, inter alia, to the 
question of the financial implications of the recommendations made by the 
Secretary-General with a view to upgrading and modernizing the United Nations 
telecommunications system. In paragraph 69 of his report (A/C.5/l540/Rev.l) the 
Secretary-General stated that, should the General Assembly approve the financial 
implications of his proposals in paragraph 68 of the same report, he would 
endeavour to implement them within the total level of appropriations approved 
for the biennium 1974--1975; to the extent that that would prove impossible, he 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 12 

would re~uest prov1s1on by way of supplementary estimates for the biennium, 
The Chairman stated that the Advisory Committee had interpreted the Secretary-
General's statement to mean that he would offset expenditures wherever possible 
by economy measures and a rearrangement of priorities. 

47. Many of the delegations participating in the discussion on this subject 
reserved their position on the financial implications of the proposals before 
them until re~uests for supplementary appropriations would be submitted later 
during the current session in the context of the Secretary-General's report on 
budget performance for the biennium 1974-1975. These reservations as well as 
other comments made by delegations in the course of discussion, and the replies 
of the representatives of the Secretary-General to ~ueries, are reflected in the 
summary records of the Committee (A/C.5/SR.l644 and 1645). 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

48, The Fifth Committee, at its 1645th meeting, decided, without objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should: 

{a) Take note of the report of the Joint Inspection Unit (A/9067); 

(b) Take note of the observations of the Administrative Committee on 
Co-ordination (A/9067/Add.l); 

(c) Take note of the report of the Secretary-General (A/C.5/l540/Rev.l); 

{d) Endorse the observations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions in document A/9608/Add.7 (see para. 147 {e) below). 

Accommodations in Geneva 

49. There were two reports of the Secretary-General before the Committee on 
this ~uestion: the annual progress report on the programme of major maintenance 
and improvements to the Palais des Nations, Geneva (A/C.5/l606), and the report 
on measures to improve the use of accommodations in Geneva (A/C.5/l607), requested 
by the General Assembly at its twenty-eighth session. 3/ The comments of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Que;tions on both of these 
reports were contained in document A/9608/Add.S. 

50. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee introduced that Committee's report 
in an oral statement before the Committee at the 1651st meeting. 

3/ Ibid., Twenty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 30 (A/9030), p. 132, 
para.-(hT(Ti). 

/ ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 13 

51. In paragraph 9 of its report (A/9608/Add.B), the Advisory Committee, commenting 
on the space situation in the Palais des Nations, urged that continued effort be 
made to rationalize space utilization in accordance with recently adopted standards 
and expressed the hope that such a continued effort would result in a more 
significant saving of space than had been realized heretofore. 

52. In paragraph 14 of the same report, the Advisory Committee, referring to the 
rental of space in the old International Labour Organisation (ILO) building, stated 
that it was its understanding that the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and 
the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration (ICEM) would reimburse the 
United Nations for the space they will occupy in the old ILO building. 

53. In paragraph 16 of the same report, commenting on the small space planning 
and management unit in the Office of the Director-General at Geneva recently 
established by the Secretary-General in response to .a suggestion of the Joint 
Inspection Unit (A/9164 -recommendation 1), the Advisory Committee expressed the 
hope that the Unit would be employed not only for the day-to-day management of 
office space, but also for planning, in consultation with all units in the United 
Nations building, how to me~t future space needs of the United Nations at Geneva. 
Moreover, it was the opinion of the Advisory Committee that the Office of General 
Services at Headquarters should also be associated with the planning process in the 
interest of ensuring that the basic guidelines and procedures for office 
accommodation are uniformly and consistently applied at all locations. 

54. The comments of delegations and of the representatives of the Secretary-
General made during the course of the discussion of the above-mentioned reports 
are reflected in the summary record of the Committee (A/C.5/SR.l65l). 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH C0~4ITTEE 

55. At its l65lst meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, >rithout objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should: 

(a) Take note of the reports of the Secretary-General contained 1n documents 
A/C.5/l606 and A/C.5/l60T; 

(b) Endorse the comments of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions contained in paragraphs 9, 14 and 16 of its report 
(A/9608/Add.B) (see para. 147 (f) below). 

Administrative arrangements for the International 
Trade Centre (UNCTAD/GATT) 

56. For its consideration of this question the Committee had before it a note by 
the Secretary-General on administrative arrangements for the UNCTAD/GATT 
International Trade Centre (A/C.5/l604), to which was annexed a summary prorosed 
agreement between the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the United 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 14 

Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the Centre, and involving 
also the United Nations Office at Geneva, whereby the existing arrangements for 
the Centre would be revised. The comments of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions on the note of the Secretary-General, 
including the annex, were also before the Committee (A/9608/Add.9). 

57. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee introduced that Committee's report 
at the l653rd meeting. In so doing he called attention, inter alia, to the comments 
of the Advisory Committee in paragraphs 5 to 10 of its report (A/9608/Add.9), 
wherein (a) it concluded that the new arrangements were not an improvement on those 
submitted to the General Assembly at its twenty-eighth session (A/C.5/l533) but that 
since assurances had been received from the representatives of the Secretary-General 
that the financing of the proposed arrangements would not involve the expenditure 
of additional funds from the United Nations regular budget or from other sources, 
it was prepared to accept the assumption as to the Centre's status as set out in 
paragraph 3 of the Secretary-General's note; and (b) expressed the view that the 
assumption contained in paragraph 3 (c) of the Secretary-General's note, which 
concerned arrangements for the administration by the Centre of its project staff 
paid from trust funds, should be amended to make it self-contained, thereby 
eliminating the need for reference to the annex attached to that report. 

58. The comments made by delegations intervening in the discussion of this subject 
are reflected in the summary records of the Committee (A/C.5/SR.l653 and 1655). 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

59. At its l655th meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, without objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should: 

(a) Take note of the note by the Secretary-General (A/C.5/l604); 

(b) Endorse the conclusions of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions (A/9608/ Add. 9); 

(c) Request the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its 
thirtieth session on this question (see para. 147 (g) belo>r). 

The effect of continuing currency instability and inflation on the 
budgets of organizations in the United Nations system 

60. At its 2206th plenary meeting, on 18 December 1973, pursuant to a 
recommendation of the Fifth Committee, the General Assembly established the Working 
Group on Currency Instability consisting of 13 Member States appointed by the 
President of the General Assembly. 

/ ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 15 

61. The terms of reference of the Working Group were set out by the General 
Assembly as follows: The Working Group will consider "alternative solutions to the 
difficulties resulting from the effect of continuing currency instability and 
inflation on the budgets of organizations in the United Nations system; the Harking 
Group shall study, inter alia, the recommendations and proposals contained in 
documents A/9008/Add.l6 and A.C.5/L.ll46/Rev.l and the discussions held in the 
Fifth Committee during the twenty-eighth session, and report on the results of its 
work to the Assembly at its twenty-ninth session". ~ 

62. For its consideration of this subject the Fifth Committee had before it the 
report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on the 
effect of continuing currency instability on the budgets of organizations in the 
United Nations system 5/ to which it attached the report of the Administrative 
Committee on Co-ordination (ACC), the report of the Harking Group on Currency 
Instability (A/9773) and a report of the Secretary-General (A/C.5/l622) wherein 
he submitted further comments of ACC on this subject. 

63. At the outset of its debate on this question, the Committee also had before it 
three draft resolutions. 

64. A draft resolution sponsored by Cana"da, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom 
of GrGat Britain and Northern Ireland (A/C.5/L.ll77) read as follows: 

"The General Assembly~ 

"Bearing in mind the provisions of Article 17 of the Charter of the United 
Nations, 

"l. Notes with appreciation the report of the Harking Group on Currency 
Instability (A/9773), which, in accordance with its terms of reference, 
considered alternative solutions to the difficulties resulting from the effects 
of currency instability and inflation on the budgets of organizations in the 
United Nations system; 

"2. Notes further the report of the Administrative Committee on 
Co-ordination (A/C.5/l622); 

Notes in particular the statement by the Working Group in 
10 of its report that currency fluctuations and inflationary 

"3. 
paragraph 
pressures 
return to 

were likely to continue and that there probably would be no early 
fixed values; 

"4. Takes particular note of the statement of the representative of the 
Secretary-General contained in paragraph 7 of the report of the Harking Group 

~Ibid., p. 134, para. (d). 

~Ibid., Supplement No. 8 A (A/9008/Add.l-34), document A/9008/Add.l6. 

/ ... 



A/9960 
Ene;lish 
Page 16 

which stressed that payment by Member States in accordance with the Financial 
Regulations and the elimination of the short-term deficit of the Organization 
would resolve many of the currency problems, faced by the United Nations, and, 
in turn, obviate in large measure the need for solutions; 

"5. Notes that the Working Group found no generally agreed alternatives 
to policies already being utilized in the United Nations and related agencies; 

"6. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with his colleagues 
in the Administrative Committee on Co-ordinat;on, to keep these problems under 
review, taking into account the results of the study of the Working Group on 
Currency Instability, and to make such recommendations to the United Nations 
General Assembly as he deems desirable. 

"7. Further requests the Secretary-General, in keeping these problems 
under review, to seek to avoid any recommendation which might have as its 
result, if implemented, a reduction of priority programmes for the developing 
countries. 11 

65. A draft resolution sponsored by Cuba concerning the investment policy of 
organizations in the United Nations system (A/C.5/L.ll79) read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Recognizing that a sound investment policy must take into account the 
fact that investments should be made in currencies that are not in crisis, 
1n order to avoid investment losses, 

"Realizing that investments by the organizations in the United Nations 
system are currently made, for the most part, in public and private securities 
of developed countries, whose currencies are in crisis, 

"Recalling what was stated in the PrograrrJlle of Action on the Establishment 
of a New International Economic Order, adopted at the sixth special session of 
the General Assembly, concerning the urgent need for measures to finance the 
development of the developing countries, 

ol. 
deposits 

Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to keep the bank 
of the Organization in currencies that are not in crisis; 

"2. Further requests him to invest temporarily unused funds of the 
organizations in the United Nations system in currencies that are not in crisis; 

"3. Recommends the Heads of the organizations in the United Nations system 
to consider the possibility of keeping the bank deposits of those organizations 
in currencies that are not in crisis; 

"4. Deems it necessary that the funds of the Organizations in the United 
Nations system, including the United Nations Development Programme and the 

/ ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 17 

United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, should be so invested as to 
contribute directly to the financing of the development of the developing 
countries while guaranteeing the requisite financial liquidity and the earnings 
of the investing organizations." 

66. A draft resolution submitted by Cuba concerning financing of the losses 
experienced by the organizations in the United Nations system d.ue to currency 
instability (A/C.5/L.ll80) read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Havinp: in mind the substantial losses experienced by the organizations in 
the United Nations system due to currency instability, 

"Having in mind also the permanence of currency instability in the 
existing international monetary system, 

"Considering the responsibility of the developed countries in which the 
organizations in the United Nations system have their headquarters for the 
realignments and fluctuations in their currencies, 

"Considering also the economic benefits derived by those develope<'. 
countries from having the headquarters of those organizations situatec. in 
their territories, 

"Recognizing that countries which are not responsible for the realignments 
and fluctuations in the currencies of the developed countries in which those 
organizations have their headquarters should not have to lJear the losses 
occasioned thereby, 

"Bearing in mind that the losses experienced by those organizations which 
have tPeir read<J.uarters in developing countries due to realignments and 
fluctuations in the currencies of those countries are relatively small, 

"l. Decides that the lcsses experienced by the organizations in the 
United Nations system due to currency instability shall be borne by the 
developed country in which the organization concerned has its headquarters 
which is responsible for those losses as a result of the realignments and 
fluctuations in its currency; 

"2. Decides also that the losses experienced by the organizations which 
have their headquarters in developing countries shall be absorbed by the budgets 
of the organizations concerned, when those losses are due co realignments and 
fluctuations in the currencies of those countries.

11 

67. A draft resolution sponsored by Cuba concerning financing of the losses 
experienced by the organizations in the United Nations system due to inflation 
(A/C.5/L.ll8l) read as follows: 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 18 

"The General Assembly, 

"Having in mind the great losses experienced by the organizations in the 
United Nations system due to the growing inflation afflicting the developed 
countries in which those organizations have their headquarters, 

"Considering the responsibility of the developed countries in which the 
organizations in the United Nations system have their headquarters for their 
internal inflation, 

"Considering also the economic benefits derived by those developed 
countries from having the headquarters of those organizations situated in their 
territories, 

"Recognizing that countries which are not responsible for the internal 
inflation afflicting the developed countries in which those organizations 
have their headquarters should not have to bear the losses occasioned thereby, 

"Bearing in mind that the losses experienced for this reason by the 
organizations in the United Nations system which have their headquarters in 
developing countries are relatively small, 

"l. Decides that the losses experienced by the organizations in the 
United Nations system due to inflation shall be borne by the developed 
countries in which those organizations have their headquarters; 

"2. Decides also that the losses experienced for this reason by those 
organizations which have their headquarters in developing countries shall be 
absorbed by the budgets of the organizations concerned." 

68. The Vice-Chairman of the Working Group on Currency Instability introduced the 
vlorking Group's report (A/9773) at the l652nd meeting. At the same meeting, the 
representative of the Secretary-General introduced, on behalf of the Secretary-
General, the statement of ACC in document A/C.5/l622. 

69. At the l653rd meeting, Cuba submitted the following amendments (A/C.5/L.ll82) 
to the three-Power draft resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77): 

"l. Add the following at the end of the preambular paragraph: 'an~. the 
methods adopted previously by the General Assembly for special financing when 
budgetary expenses are not involved'. 

"2. Operative paragraph 4: in the first line, replace 'Takes particular note' 
by 'Takes note also'; in the fourth line, replace 'would resolve many' by 
1 would alleviate some'~ in the fifth and sixth lines, delete 'and, in turn, 
obviate in large measure the need for solutions;'. 

''3. Delete operative paragraph 5. 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 19 

"4. Replace operative paragraph 6 by the following: 

'Requests the \-lor king Group on Currency Instability to continue 
studying this question and to report to the thirtieth session of the 
General Assembly, 1dthout prejudice to the adoption at the current 
session of measures deemed appropriate for the solution of these 
problems'. 

"5. Replace operative paragraph 7 by the following: 

'Further requests the Working Group, in keeping these problems under 
review, to make recommendations with a view to ensuring that the 
programmes and activities of the developing countries are maintained at 
least at their current level'. 

"6. Add a new final operative paragraph reading as follows: 

'Considers that supplementary estimates should not be approved to 
finance the losses caused by inflation Rnd currency instability for the 
biennium 1974-1975 until other methods of financing those losses have 
been found' . " 

70. At the l656th meeting, the representative of the United Kingdcm of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland introduced a revised three-Power draft resolution 
(A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.l) «hich read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Bearing in mind the provisions of Article 17 of the Charter of the 
United Nations, 

"Noting the statement of the representative of the Secretary-General 
contained in paragraph 7 of the report of the Working Group on Currency 
Instability (A/9773), 

"l. Notes with appreciation the report of the Working Group on Currency 
Instabflity, which, in accordance with its terms of reference, considered 
alternative solutions to the difficulties resulting from the effects of 
currency instability and inflation on the budgets of organizations in the 
United Nations system; 

"2. Notes further the report of the Administrative Committee on 
Co-ordination (A/C.5/l622); 

"3. Not~s in particular the statement by the 11/orJcing Group in paragraph 10 
of its report that ~urrency fluctuations and inflationary pressures were likely 
to continue and that there would probably be no early return to fixed values; 

I .. . 



A/9960 
English 
Page 20 

"4. Notes that the \>larking Group found no generally agreed alternatives 
to policies already being utilized in the United Nations and related agencies; 

"5. Urges Member States to pay their contributions promptly; 

"6. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with his colleagues 
in the Administrative Con~ittee on Co-ordination, to keep these problems under 
revie1>1, taking into account the results of the study of the Working Group on 
Currency Instability, and to report to the United Nations General Assembly at 
its thirtieth session; 

"7. Further requests the Secretary-General, in keeping these problems 
under review, to avoid wherever possible any recommendation which might have 
as its result, if implemented, a reduction of programmes for the developing 
countries.H 

71. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba introduced a revlslon of his 
draft proposal (A/C.5/L.ll82/Rev.l) which constituted amendments to the three-Power 
revised draft resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.l). The revised amendments in 
document A/C.5/L.ll82/Rev.l read as follows: 

"1. Add the following at the end of the first preambular paragraph: 'and the 
methods adopted previously by the General Assembly for special financing when 
budgetary expenses are not involved'. 

"2. Delete operative paragraph 4. 

"3. Replace operative paragraph 6 by the following: 

'Requests the Working Group on Currency Instability to continue 
studying this question and to report to the thirtieth session of the 
General Assembly'. 

"4. Add the following after paragraph 6: 

'Considers that the undertaking of these studies does not prevent 
• • the General Assembly from adoptlng at the current session measures deemed 

appropriate for the solution of these problems'. 

"5. Replace operative paragraph 7 by the following: 

'Further requests the Harking Group, in keeping these problems under 
review, to ITake recommendations with a view to ensuring that the 
programmes and activities of the developing countries are not affected' . 

• 
"6. Add a new final operative paragraph reading as follows: 

'Considers further that supplementary estimates should not be 
approved to finance the losses caused by inflation and currency instability 
for the biennium 1974-1975 until other methods of financing those losses 
have been f'ound 1 • 11 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 21 

72. At the same meeting, the representative of Bulgaria introduced an amendment 
(A/C.5/L.ll85) which would replace paragraph 6 in draft resolution A/C.5/L.ll77 by 
the following: 

"6. Requests the Secretary-General to solicit the views of Member States 
regarding measures for protecting the budgets of organizations in the United 
Nations system from the effects of currency instability and inflation, 
discussed or suggested at the current session and in the report of the Working 
Group, and to prepare on the basis of those views an analytical and comparative 
report to be submitted to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session." 

73. At the same meeting, the following amendments to the three-Power draft 
resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.l) were orally introduced: 

(a) The representative of Colombia proposed the following amendments: 

(i) Deletion of the second preambular paragraph; 

(ii) Replacement of paragraph 5 by paragraph 4 of the text in document 
A/C.5/L.ll77; 

(iii) Amendment of paragraph 7 to read: "Further requests the Secretary·-
General, in keeping these problems under review, to ensure that the 
programme and activities concerning the developing countries are not 
adversely affected." 

(b) The representative of the Upper Volta proposed the deletion of the words 
"wherever possible" in operative paragraph 7. 

(c) The representative of Kenya suggested that in operative paragraph 6, 
after the words 1'working Group on Currency Instability", the words "the views 
expressed during the consideration of the agenda it~m and other views that ruc.y l::e 
expressed by or received from Member States 11 , be inserted. 

74. At the l657th meeting, a revision of the three-Power draft resolution 
(A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.2) incorporating, with slight modification, the above-mentioned 
amendments, was introduced to the Committee. The revised text read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Bearing in mind the provisions of Article 17 of the Charter of the 
United Nations, 

"l. Notes with appreciation the report of the Working Group on Currency 
Instability, which, in accordance with its terms of reference, considered 
alternative solutions to the difficulties resulting from the effects of 
currency instability and inflation on the budgets of organizations in the 
United Nations system; 

I .. . 



A/9960 
English 
Page 22 

"2. Notes further the report of the Administrative Committee on 
Co-ordination (A/C.5/l622); 

Notes in particular the statement by the Working Group in 
10 of its report that currency fluctuations and inflationary 

"3. 
paragraph 
pressures 
return to 

were likely to continue and ttat there would probably be no early 
fixed values; 

"4. Notes that the Working Group found no generally agreed alternatives 
to policies already being utilized in the United Nations and related agencies; 

"5. 'l'akes particular note of the statement of the representative of the 
Secretary-General contained in paragraph 7 of the report of the Working Group 
which stressed that payment by Member States in accordance with the financial 
regulations and the elimination of the short-term deficit of the Organization 
would resolve many of the C'J:trency problems faced by the United Nations, and, 
in turn, obviate in large ll'ee,sure the need for solutions; 

"6. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with his colleagues 
in the Administrative Corr@ittee on Co-ordination, to keep these problems under 
review, taking into account the results of the study of the Working Group on 
Currency Instability, the views expressed during the consideration of the 
agenda item during the twenty-ninth session, and other views that may be 
expressed by or received from Member States, and to report to the United 
Nations General Assembly at its thirtieth session; 

"7. Further requests the Secretary-General, in keeping these problems 
under review, to ensure that the programmes and activities concerning the 
developing countries are not adversely affected,-" 

75. At the same meeting, the representative of Bulgaria introduced the following 
revision (A/C.5/L.ll85/Rev.l) of his proposed amendment to cp~rative paragraph 6 of 
the revised three-Power draft resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.l): 

"Requests the Secretary-General to solicit the views of Member States 
regarding measures, discussed or suggested at the twenty-ninth session and in 
the report of the Working Group, for protecting the budgets of organizations 
of the United Nations system from the effects of currency instability and 
inflation, and to submit a report to the General, Assembly at its thirtieth 
session.,, 

In so doing, he explained that since paragraph 6 had been revised in document 
A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev,2, his text could, beginning with the words "/and/ to solicit the 
views of Member States ••. " to the end, now replace the end of-paragraph 6 beginning 
with the words "the views expressed during the consideration ..• ". 

76. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba withdrew his sixth revised 
amendment (A/C.5/L.ll82/Rev.l) since it no longer related to the three-Power draft 
resolution as further revised in A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.2. 

/ ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 23 

77. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom, on behalf of 
the sponsors of the revised three-Power draft resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.2) 
accepted an oral suggestion of Yemen to replace in operative paragraph 6 the words 
"taking into account the results of the study" by the words "taking into account 
the report". 

78. At the 1658th meeting, Cuba introduced a revision of the amendments proposed 
in A/C.5/L.ll82/Rev.l in order to relate them to the revised version of the three-
Power draft resolution in A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.2. The revised Cuban amendments 
(A/C.5/L.ll82/Rev.2) read as follows: 

"1. Add the following at the end of the preambular paragraph: 'and the 
methods adopted previously by the General Assembly for special financing when 
budgetary expenses are not involved'. 

"2. Replace operative paragraph 4 by the following: 

'Notes that the Working Group was unable, at this stage, to reach 
agreement on any generally acceptable alternatives to policies already 
being utilized in the United Nations and related agencies'. 

"3. Replace operative paragraph 5 by the following: 

'Notes further the· statement of the representative of the Secretary-
General contained in par.agraph 7 of the report of the Working Group which 
stressed that payment by 11ernber States in accordance with the financial 
rGgulations and the elimination of the short-term deficit of the 
Organization would alleviate some of the currency problems faced by the 
United Nations'. 

"4. Replace operative paragraph 6 by the following: 

• 

'Requests the Working Group on Currency Instability to continue 
studying this qu2stion and to report to the thirtieth session of the 
General Assembly' • 

"5. Add a new operative paragraph reading as follows: 

'Considers that the undertaking of these studies does not prevent 
the General Assembly from adopting at the current session measures deemed 
appropriate for the solution of these problems 1 • 

"6. Replace operative paragraph 7 by the following: 

'Further requests the Working Group, in keeping these problems under 
review, to make recommendations with a view to ensuring that the 
programmes and activities of the developing countries are not affected'. 

I . .. 



A/99GO 
English 
Page 24 

"7. Add a nev final operative narap;ranh readin,c as follows: 

'Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the 
progra~Nes and activities concerninr, the developinr countries are not 
adversely affected'., 

The representative of Cuba then orithdrew his third revised runendment in document 
P/C. 5/L.l182/Rev .2. 

79. At the same meeting, the representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics orally proposed the deletion of the orords "and the elimination of the 
short-term deficit of the-Orf(anization" from operative parar;ranh 5 of the three-
Power revised draft resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.2). 

DECISION OF 'l'HE FIFTH CO!!IIITTEE 

80. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the draft resolutions and 
amendments as follows: 

(a) At the request of the representative of Peru, a separate vote was taken 
on each of the Cuban amendments (A/C.5/L.ll82/Rev.~ The voting on the amendments 
was as follows: 

( i) Amendment l was rejected by 40 votes to 20, orith 30 abstentions; 

(ii) " 2 vras rejected by 34 votes to 21, ,.;ith 39 abstentions; 
(iii) " 4 was rejected by 47 votes to 20, with 28 abstentions; 
(iv) " 5 oras rejected by 35 votes to 21, orith 34 abstentions; 

( v) 11 6 was rejected by 36 votes to 18, with 31 abstentions; 

(vi) " 7 was rejected by 33 votes to 32, with 22 abstentions. 

(b) The Bulgarian arn.endment (A/C. 5/L.ll85/Rev .1), as orally modified by 
Bulgaria, was rejected by 38 votes to 26, with 30 abstentions. 

(c) The oral amendment to operative pararraph 5 of the three-Poorer draft 
resolution (A/C.5/L.l177/Rev.2) proposed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
was rejected by 47 votes to 21, with 26 abstentions. 

(d) A separate vote on operative paragraph 7 of the three-Power draft 
resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.2) was re~uested by Algeria. The paragraph was adopted 
by 83 votes to none, with 12 abstentions. 

(e) The three--Power draft resolution (A/C.5/L.ll77/Rev.2) as a orhole, as 
orally amended by Yemen, was adopted by a roll-call vote of 83 to 17, with 
3 abstentions (see para. 146 belm-r, draft resolution II). '!he voting was as 
follows: 

/ ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 25 

In favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, 
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Denmark, 
Dominican Republic, Ec~ador, Egypt, Finland, France, Gambia, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, 
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, 
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, 
Kuwait, Liberia, Halaysia, Mali, Malta, 11orocco, Netherlands, 
New Zealand~ Nicaragual Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, 
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republi• 
of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, 
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia~ Zambia. 

Against: Algeria, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re?ublic, 
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, German Democratic 
Republic, Guinea, Hungary, Iraq, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Mongolia, Peru, Poland, Romania, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 

Abstaining: Argentina, China, 11exico. 

(f) The Cuban draft resolution in document A/C.5/L.ll79 was rejected by 35 
votes to 29, with 28 abstentions. 

(g) The Cuban draft resolution in document A/C.5/L.ll80 was rejected by 
39 votes to 19, with 38 abstentions. 

(h) The Cuban draft resolution 1n document A/C.5/L.ll8l was rejected by 
42 votes to 19, with 38 abstentions. 

81. The views expressed by delegations in the course of the debate on this subject, 
as well as those expressed in explanation of vote before and after the vote, are 
reflected in the summary records of the Committee (A/C.5/SR.l652-l659). 

Study of the role, organization and functioning of the 
United Nations Board of Auditors 

82. At its 2206th plenary meeting, on 18 December 1973, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the Fifth Committee: 

"Decided to request the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions to make a thorough study of the role, organization and functioning 
of the Board of Auditors with a view to achieving the greatest efficiency and 
economy consistent with a fully effective audit of United Nations activities; 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 26 

the Advisory Cornmi t.tee should, inter alia, take into account the modalities 
for rotating the membership on a geographical basis and submit a report on the 
study to the General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session after due consultation 
with the members of the Board of Auditors and the Secretary-General." §) 

83. Accordingly, in conducting its study, the Advisory Corr~ittee held consultations 
with members of the Board of Auditors and representatives of the Secretary-General 
and submitted its comments and conclusions in a report (A/9608/Add.l) which was 
before the Fifth Committee for its consideration. 

84. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee orally introduced the Committee's 
report (A/9608/Add.l) at the l638th meeting and elaborated further on that statement 
at the l667th meeting. 

85. Also at the l667th meeting, the Auditor-General of Pakistan orally presented 
the views of the Board of Auditors on matters dealt with in the report of the 
Advisory Committee and, in a further statement, responded to several queries raised 
by delegations in the course of the discussion of this question. 

86. In paragraph 3 of its report (A/9608/Add.l) the Advisory Committee expressed 
the opinion that the role of the Board of Auditors was sufficiently defined in 
General Assembly resolution 74 (I) of 7 December 1946, together with the 
"Additional terms of reference governing the audit of the United Nations'; annexed 
to the Financial Regulations of the United Nations. 

87. In paragraph 5 of the S8Jile report, the Advisory Committee recommended that 
there be no change in the size of the membership of the Board. 

88. Hith regard to the organization of audit assignments, the Advisory Committee, 
in paragraph 9 of its report, suggested that "the General Assembly should invite 
the Board to propose, with due regard to effectiveness and economy, alternative 
methods of allocating audit assignments for auditing future accounts, beginning 
with those for the biennium 1976-1977". 

89. Referring to the work of the Board with respect to the auditing of individual 
transactions, the Advisory Committee, in paragraph 12 of its report, suggested 
that economies in travel costs could be achieved if the audit staff were to pay 
each audit point three visits (each of which could be of a somwhat longer duration 
than was the present practice) every two yeacs instead of two visits a year, 
which was the normal pattern so far. 

90. On the question of biennial auditing, the Advisory Committee, in parag:t'aph 13 
of its report, stated, inter alia, that it might be possible to dispense with 
the annual certification of accounts after a manual of accounting was issued and 
the vacancies in the internal audit service are filled, and recommended that the 
question be reviewed again in two years' time. 

§)Ibid., ~~~ement No. 30 (A/9030), p. 131, item 77, para. (a). 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 

.Page 27 

91. In paragraph 14 of its report, the Advisory Committee stated that there was 
agreement between that Committee and the Board of Auditors that there was no need 
for the Board to submit a formal audit report to the General Assembly to cover the 
first year of a biennium. If in the course of auditing transactions and 
certifying the interim accounts during the first year the Board found situations 
which it fieemed should be brought to the attention of Member States, the Board 
would report them to the Advisory Committee, which, if need be, would apprise 
the General Assembly. To that end, it was agreed that the annual meetings between 
the Board and the Advisory Comrrittee would continue. 

92. On the question of rotation of :r:cmbership in the .Board of Auditors on a 
geographical basis, the Advisory Committee, in paragraph 15 of its report, observed 
that there was nothing in the Financial Regulations to prevent a more frequent 
rotation of the membership of the Board on a geographical basis than has hitherto 
been the case, and that the General Assembly could achieve any desired degree of 
rotation through the process of consultations between the groups representing 
the different geographical areas. At the same time, the Advisory Committee noted 
the advantages of maintaining a reasonable degree of continuity and the advisability 
of looking at the geographical basis of the Board in the broader context of the 
Panel of External Auditors, whose larger size could provide greater opportunity for 
the simultaneous representation of all the geographical regions. 

93. At the l667th meeting, the representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics introduced the following draft paragraph (A/C.5/L.ll88) for inclusion 
in the Committee's report to the General Assembly on this item: 

·'The Fifth Committee, attaching considerable importance to the 
activities of the United Nations Board of Auditors and, in particular, 
to the question of the participation of representatives of the principal 
geographical regions in the work of the United Nations Board of Auditors, 
requests the United Nations General Assembly to establish the principle 
of the rotation of the membership of the United Nations Board of Auditors 
on a broad geographical basis, so that representatives of the five 
principal geographical regions may take turns to participate in the work 
of the United Nations Board of Auditors . ~' 

94. The draft paragraph proposed by the Soviet Union was later revised 
(A/C.5/L.ll88/Rev.l) as follows: 

"The Fifth Committee, attaching considerable importance to the activities 
of the United Nations Board of Auditors and, in particular, to the question 
of the participation of representatives of the principal geographical regions 
in the work of the United Nations Board of Auditors, requests the United 
Nations General Assembly to implement the principle of the rotation of the 
membership of the United Nations Board of Auditors on a broad geographical 
basis, so that representatives of the five principal geographical regions 
may partic~pate on a rotational basis in the work of the United Nations 
Board of Auditors . ' 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 28 

95. At the l675th meeting, the representative of the Soviet Union accepted an 
oral suggestion by Ken.ya to delete the word "principal" in the phrase referring to 
"five principal geographical regions", and an oral suggestion by the Dominican 
Republic to substitute the words "recognizing the importance of" for the words 
"attaching considerable importance to" in the beginning of the paragraph. 

96. Also at its 1675th meeting, the Fifth Committee decided without objection 
to recommend to the General Assembly that it concur with the observations and 
recommendations contained in paragraphs 3, 5, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in document 
A/9608/Add.l (see decision in para. 102 below). 

97. The representative of Brazil submitted an amendment (A/C.5/L.ll99), which was 
orally corrected at the 1679th meeting, to the Soviet proposal in document 
A/C.5/L.ll88/Rev.l, which would replace the first part of that proposal by the 
following text: 

"Having concurred with paragraph 15 of the report of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in document A/9608/Add.l, 
the Fifth Committee believes that more emphasis should be given to the 
principle of rotation of the membership of the United Nations Board of 
Auditors on a broad geographical basis ••• " 

The text thereafter, from the words "so that representatives" , would stand as it was. 

98. At the 1679th meeting, the Legal Counsel made a statement on the applicability 
of rule 130 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly to the two proposals 
before the Committee. After a short procedural discussion, the Chairman ruled 
that the proposal submitted by Brazil (A/C.5/L.ll99) was an amendment under 
rule 130 of the rules of procedure. 

99. The Committee then adopted the Brazilian amendment (A/C.5/L.ll99), as orally 
revised, by a roll-call vote of 30 to 12, 1<ith 47 abstentions. The voting was as 
follows: 

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgi urn, Brazil, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Dominican Republic, Iran, Kenya, Lesotho, Mali, Mexico, 
Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, 
Spain, Sweden, United Republic of Tanzania, United States 
of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia. 

Against: Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, 
German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Mongolia, Poland, Romania, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Upper Volta. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bhutan, Burma, Dahomey, 
DenmarK, Ecuador, Egypt , Finland, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Ghana, Greece, India, Indonesia, Ireland, 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 29 

Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, 
Liberia, Malaysia, Morocco, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, 
Oman, Qatar, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia. 

100. The Committee then adopted the Soviet proposal, as revised by the Brazilian 
amendment, by 44 votes to none, with 41 abstentions (see para. 103 below). 

101. The statements made and views expressed during the consideration of this item 
are reflected in the summary records of the Fifth Committee (A/C.5/SR.l638, 1667, 
1668, 1675, 1676, 1679). 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMI~LEE 

102. The Fifth Committee decided to recommend that the General Assembly should 
concur with the observations and recommendations contained in paragraphs 3, 5, 9, 
12, 13, 14 and 15 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions in document A/9608/Add.l (see para. 147 (h) below). 

103. The Fifth Committee also decided to recommend that the General Assembly should 
approve the following decision taken by the Fifth Committee: 

"Having concurred with paragraph 15 of the report of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in document A/9608/Add.l, 
the Firth Committee believes that more emphasis should be given to the 
principle of rotation of the membership of the United Nations Board of 
Auditors on a broad geographical basis, so that representatives of the five 
geographical regions may participate on a rotational basis in the work of 
the United Nations Board of Auditors." 

Installation of mechanical means of voting 

104. At its 1670th meeting, the Committee had before it for its consideration of 
this subject a note by the Secretary-General (A/C.5/1594) and the related report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/9608/Add.2), 
which was orally introduced by the Chairman of the Advisory Committee. 

105. In paragraphs 3 and 4 of its report (A/9608/Add.2) the Advisory Committee was 
unable to endorse the Secretary-General's suggestion that an additional voting 
machine be installed in a main conference room at Headquarters in 1976/77 in view 
of the paramount need of establishing an order of priority in the allocation 
of the limited resources available to the United Nations at the present time. 
It suggested that the Secretary-General would be in a better position to decide 
whether he would be justified in reinserting his request in the proposed programme 
budget for 1976177 after a study of the incidence and frequency of voting in the 
Main Committees during the current session. 

I ... 



Al9960 
English 
Page 30 

106. As regards the ~uestion of installing a voting machine, or machines, in the 
Palais des Nations, Geneva, the Advisory Committee, in paragraph 5 of its report, 
agreed with the Secretary--General's suggestion that he undertake discussions with 
the specialized agencies which hold their annual conferences at the Palais with 
a view to determining what financial contribution they would be prepared to r1ake 
tmrards the cost of installing such a voting machine, or r1achines. 

107. In paragraph 6 of its report, the Advisory Committee, although recognlzlng that 
the question of budgetary provision for an additional voting machine was somewhat 
atypical, cautioned "against a piecemeal approach to budget building, for such an 
approach would inevitably lead to decisions being taken and commitments being entered 
into 1<ithout reference to the over-all frame,;ork and 1<ithout an assessment being 
made of the relative order of priority that should attach to individual projects." 

DECISIOi'l OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

108. After a short discussion at its 1670th meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, 
without objection, to recommend that the General Assembly should take note of the 
report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
(AI96081Add.2) and that it should concur with the observations and recommendations 
in paragraphs 3 to 6 thereof (see para. 147 (i) belov). 

Progress made by the Administrative Management S~rvice 
in -~onducting a s~vey. of manuo~er .....£:t:.iliz~.tiqn in the 

Secretariat 

109. For its co,1sideration of this item, the Committee had before it the fifth 
annual report submitted by the Secretary-General on the progress of the 
Administrative Management Service (AMS) in conducting the survey of management 
and manpower utilization in the Secretariat (AIC.5Il599) and the comments of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions thereon (AI96081Add.l0 
and Carr .l). 

llO. The Committee also had before it section D, chapter VII, of the report of the 
:economic and Social Council 7 I (AI9603), and a note by the Secretary-General 
(AIC.5Il595) informing the Fifth Committee of the decision of the Economic and 
Social Council to defer consideration of the organization of the Department of 
Economic and Social Affairs unt.i.l the fifty-eighth session of the Council. 'I'he 
Secretary-General would, therefore, not be in a position to report to the General 
Assembly on this ~uestion until its thirtieth.session. 

111. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee introduced that Committee's report 
(AI96081Add.l0 and Corr.l) at the l673rd meeting, and an oral statement 1<as also 
made by the representative of the Secretary-General. Th~ Director of AMS 
subsequently orally replied to q_ueries· raised in the course of the discussion . 

. V Ibid. , llienty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 3 (AI9603). 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 31 

112. In paragraph 5 of its report (A/9608/Add.lO and Corr.l) the Advisory Committee 
observed that the part of the Secretary-General's report dealing with implementation 
did not provide adeg_uate information on the nature of the recommendations not 
implemented and the reasons for non-implementation, nor was there any evaluation 
of the effectiveness of those recommendations not implemented. 

113. In paragraph 6 of its report, the Advisory Committee noted that several of 
the recommendations of AMS had not been implemented by the departments concerned, 
even after the Secretary-General had accepted them, and reiterated its concern 
that the usefulness of the surveys was often lost or seriously diminished because 
of delays involved in the consideration and implementation of the AMS 
recommendationso 

114. In paragraph 8 of its report, the Advisory Committee commented on the 
adaptation of the manning table of AMS to its workload, and in paragraph 10 it 
agreed with the Secretary-General with regard to the future role of AMS and 
expressed the hope that ~e would utilize the internal management resources available 
in A'~ to their fullest potential. 

115. In paragraph ll of its report the Advisory Committee expressed the view that 
the preparation of an organization manual by AMS "merits high priority attention 
for early completion". 

116. Commenting on the possible use of consultant services to accompany the gradual 
decrease in the size of AI~, the Advisory Committee, in paragraph 12 of its report, 
trusted that the Secretary-General would be guided by the Fifth Committee's 
decision at its 1642nd meeting on the use of experts and consultants in the 
United Nations. 

117. Finally, in paragraph 13 of its report, the Advisory Committee suggested 
that , given the changed role of A!fB , the annual progress report to the General 
Assembly should be discontinued and, instead, a progress report on its work 
should be made to the Advisory Co~~ttee; matters of general concern would then 
be referred to the Assembly by the Advisory Committee as necessary. 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

118. After a short discussion the Fifth Committee, at its l673rd meeting, decided, 
without objection, to recommend that the General Assembly should: 

(a) Take note of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Q.uestions ( A/9608/ Add.lO and Corr .l) and concur with the observations 
and suggestions contained in paragraphs 5, 6, 8, 10, ll, 12 and 13 therein; 

(b) Take note of the reports of the Secretary-General (A/C.5/l595 and 
A/C. 5/1599); 

(c) Take note of chapter VII, section 4, of the report of the Economic and 
Social Council§_/ (see para. 147 (j) belm<). 

§_/ Ibid. 
I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 32 

Assistance in cases of natural disaster and 
other disaster solutions 

119. Under this heading, the Fifth Committee had before it for its consideration 
a report of the Secretary-General on methods of financing emergency assistance 
to Governments in cases of natural disaster (A/C.5/l597) submitted in response 
to a decision taken by the General Assembly at its 2206th plenary meeting, on 
18 December 1973, on the reconnnendation of the Fifth Committee 2J as well as 
the related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions (A/9608/Add.6). 

120. In paragraph 7 of his report (A/C.5/l597) the Secretary-General did not 
recommend a return to the system of withdrawals from the Working Capital Fund 
for relief assistance in cases of natural disaster. He believed that the present 
arrangements involving a regular budget appropriation had worked well and should 
be maintained at least until the end of the biennium 1974-1975. 

121. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, in 
paragraphs 3 to 5 of its report, concluded that the system of making allocations 
from an appropriation in the regular budget did not present overwhelming advantages 
with respect to speeding up response to emergency situations by the Co-ordinator, 
especially since appropriate arrangements could always be made for accelerating 
recourse to the li'orking Capital Fund. The Advisory Committee was of the opinion 
that the Secretary-General had not given sufficient reasons to substantiate his 
conclusion that an appropriation under the regular budget was the best method of 
financing emergency assistance by the United Nations. Inclusion in the 
appropriations under the regular budget for this purpose might be unwittingly 
interpreted to mean that the United Nations should play an operational role in 
disaster relief beyond that envisaged by General Assembly resolution 2816 (XXVI). 

122. Finally, in paragraph 6 of its report (A/9608/Add.6), the Advisory Committee 
agreed with the Secretary-General that he further explore the creation of a 
special voluntary fund for emergency assistance from which the Co-ordinator could 
make withdrawals as required, and that he submit a report to the General Assembly 
at its thirtieth session on the results of his consultations with Member States. 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

123. At its l675th meeting, after a short discussion, the Fifth Committee decided, 
without objection, to recommend that the General Assembly should: 

(a) Take note of the report of the Secretary-General (A/C.5/l597); 

(b) Endorse the observations and conclusions contained in paragraphs 3 to 6 
of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
(A/9608/Add.6) (see para. 147 (k) belm•). 

~/Ibid., Twenty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 30 (A/9030), p. 132, para. (d). 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 33 

Question of the separate preparation and submission of the 
programme and budget of the United Nations Industrial 
Development Organization and of administrative autonomy for 
the United Nations Industrial Development Organization 

124. At its 2192nd plenary meeting, on 6 December 1973, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the Fifth Committee: 

"(a) Decided to request the Secretary-General to prepare a report 
on the question of the separate preparation and submission of the programme 
and budget of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and 
the question of administrative autonomy for that organization as covered, 
respectively, in paragraphs 1 and 3 of decision II (VII) of 14 May 1973 
of the Industrial Development Board, and to submit that report to the 
General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session; 

"(b) Endorsed the observations contained in paragraph 7 of the 
related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1974-1975." 10/ 

125. In the paragraph in question the Advisory Committee had agreed: 

"that it would be useful for the General Assembly to have a report setting 
out the Secretary-General's views on the matter. The issues raised in 
paragraphs 1 and 3 of decision II (VII) of the Industrial Development 
Board, however, might have administrative and budgetary repercussions 
extending to the United Nations as a whole. Should that prove to be the 
case, a piecemeal approach based on problems encountered by one 
organizational unit might prove inadequate. In the circumstances, while 
recognizing that the views of the Second Committee would be of value, the 
Advisory Committee is of the opinion that the detailed consideration of 
the proposed report by the Secretary-General, together with the Advisory 
Committee's comments thereon, should take place in the Fifth Committee." 11/ 

126. For its consideration of this item, the Fifth Committee had before it, at 
its 1689th meeting, two reports of the Secretary-General (A/9792 and A/C.5/1616 
and Corr.l) on this question. It also had before it a note by the Chairman 
(A/C.5/1633) transmitting a communication from the Chairman of the Second Committee 
to the President of the General Assembly in which the Second Committee recommended 
that the two reports of the Secretary-General (A/9792 and A/C.5/1616 and Corr.l) 
be transmitted to the Second General Conference of the United Nations Industri8l 
Development Organization so that the autonomy of UNIDO and its institutional 
relationship with other organs of the United Nations system could be considered 
in all its aspects at that Conference. 

10/ Ibid., (A/9030) p. 130, item 48. 

11/ Ibid., Supplement No. 8 A (A/9008/Add.l-34), document A/9008/Add.l9, 
para. 7. 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 34 

127. After consultation with the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions, the Chairman of the Fifth Committee introduced a note. to 
the Fifth Committee (A/C.5/L.l209) in which he drelf attention to the recommendation 
of the Second Committee in document A/C.5/l633, and suggested, in paragraph 5 of 
his note (A/C.5/L.l209), that the Fifth Committee should decide to postpone its 
own consideration of the question until the thirtieth session, at ;rhich time it 
could have before it the several reports already issue~ on this que8tion, the 
vie;rs of the Second General Conference of the United Nations Industrial Development 
Organization and the observations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions. 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

128. At its l689th meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, without objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should postpone to its thirtieth session the 
consideration of the question of the separate preparation and submission of the 
programmes and budget of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization 
and of the administrative autonomy for that organization (see para. 147 (l) belmr). 

I . .. 



Progress report on the prograrr~e budget for the 
biennium 1974-19,75 

A/9960 
English 
Page 35 

129. In his progress report on the programme budget for the biennium 1974-1975, 12/ 
the Secretary-General requested total additional appropriations amounting to 
$47,706,000, of which $14,344,000 referred to variations in rates of exchange, 
$27,556,000 to inflation, $1,865,000 to implementation of decisions of policy-making 
organs and $3,941,000 to other prograrr~e changes. 

130. The Secretary-General also recommended revised estimates of income in a total 
amount of $3,354,000, of which $1,245,000 related to variations in rates of 
exchange, $322,000 to inflation, $40,000 to the implementation of decisions of 
policy-making organs and $1,747,000 to other programme changes. 

131. In its related report (A/9608/Add.l6), the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions recommended $41,900,000, the total requested by the 
Secretary-General for variations in rates of exchange and inflation and $2,458,000 
out of a total of $5,806,000 requested by the Secretary-General under the other two 
categories of additional requirements mentioned above, or a total of $44,358,000. 

132. As regards estimates of income, the Advisory Committee recommended a total 
of $3,314,000, of which $1,567,000 related to variations in rates of exchange and 
inflation and $1,747,000 to the balance of the additional appropriations 
recommended by the Advisory Committee under the other two categories as indicated 
above. 

133. At its 1694th meeting, the Fifth Committee took two separate votes on the 
total revised appropriation: 

(a) By 74 votes to 1, with 13 abstentions, it approved an amount of 
$41,900,000 recommended by the Advisory Corr~ittee to cover the effects of variations 
in rates of exchange and inflation; 

(b) By 76 votes to 9, with 4 abstentions, it approved an smount of 
$2,458,000 recommended by the Advisory Committee in respect of the implementation 
of decisions of policy-making organs and other programme changes. 

134. Finally, the Committee anproved, without objection, related revised estimates 
of income in a total amount of $3,314,000. 

135. Comments made and reservations expressed by delegations in respect of the 
revised appropriations are reflected in the summary record of the Committee 
(A/C.5/SR.l694). 

12/ Ibid., Twenty-ninth Session, Supplement llo. 6 (A/9606). 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 36 

Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on the utilization 
of office accommodation at United Nations Headquarters 

l36. For its consideration of this question, at its l696th meeting, the Fifth 
Committee had before it the report prepared by the Joint Inspection Unit on the 
utilization of office accommodation at United Nations Headquarters (A/9854), as 
well as the comments of the Secretary-General (A/9854/Add.l) thereon. 

DECISION OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

l37. At its l696th meeting, the Fifth Committee decided, without objection, to 
recommend that the General Assembly should decide that consideration of the report 
of the Joint Inspection Unit on the utilization of office accommodation at United 
Nations Headquarters (A/9854) be postponed to the thirtieth session. 

other business 

l38. Certain delegations expressed concern with regard to the :r:roblems experienced 
during the past years and during the current session with regard to the agenda of 
the Fifth Committee. Too much business had descended on the Fifth Committee and on 
the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in the final weeks 
of the session, as a result of which important items had to be decided upon after 
hasty and, at times; inadequate consideration, and the Fifth Committee had to resort 
to frequent night meetings. It was suggested that the difficulties would be even 
more acute at the thirtieth session, when the biennial budget for l976-l977 as well 
as other important items will be before the Fifth Committee. The problem should, 
therefore, be studied in the first instance by the Advisory Committee, which should 
report in time in order that the question of the Fifth Committee's agenda can be 
the first item of business for the Fifth Committee at the thirtieth session. The 
Advisory Committee might turn its attention primarily to the question of the 
periodicity with which certain subjects are brought before the Fifth Committee. 

l39. The Fifth Committee decided to include this suggestion in its present report. 

Revised appropriations 

l40. There follows a summary of documents and related amounts which gave rise to 
additional appropriations for the biennium l974-l975. The summary reflects the 
decisions of the Fifth Committee on the revised estimates submitted by the 
Secretary-General under various sections of the programme budget as well as on 
the amounts required for the implementation of resolutions adopted by the General 
Assembly at its current session on the recommendation of other Main Committees. 

I . .. 



Documentation 

A. EXPENDITURE SECTIONS 

I. Revised estimates 

United Nations accommodations in 
Bangkok (A/C.5/1596, AI96081Add.4) 

Differential treatment based upon 
sex under the Staff Regulations 
and Staff Rules (AIC.511603, 
AI96081Add.5, 1687th meeting) 

United Nations salary system -
Report of the International Civil 
Service Advisory Board (AI9709, 
A/9919, Al9981) 

United Nations International 
School (AI9858, AI96081Add.l8, 
Al9983) 

Progress report of the Secretary-
General on the programme budget 
for the biennium 197411975 
(AI9606, AI96081Add.l6, 1649th 
meeting) 

Total I 

II. Financial implications 

Policies of apartheid of the 
Government of South Africa 
(AIC.511612, Al9782) 

Implementation of the Declaration 
of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples (AIC.511610, 
A/9777) 

Strengthening of the Office of 
the United Nations Disaster 
Relief Co-ordinator (AIC.511628, 
A/96081Add.ll, Al9888, General 
Assembly resolution 3243 (XXIX)) 

Estimates 
proposed by 
Secretary-
General 

$ 

215,000 

190,000 

13,329,ooo I 
25o,oo# 

2,610,000 

47.706,000 

64,300,000 

3,850 

15,720 

69,500 

AI99(,0 
Enfllish 
Page 37 

Reductions 
recommended 
by ACABQ 

$ 

(215,000) 

(4,980,000) 

(610,000) 

(3,348,000) 

(9,153,000) 

Anpropriation 
$ 

190,000 

8,349,ooo I 
25o,oo# 

2,000,000 

44,358,000 

55,147,000 

3,850 

15,720 

69,500 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
PaGe 33 

Documentation 

Estimates 
proposed by 
Secretary-

General 

II. Financial implications (continued) 

Participation in the United Nations 
Conference of the Representation of 
States in Their Relations with 
International Organizations 
(A/C.5/1623, A/9883, General Assembly 
resolution 3247 (XXIX)) 

International Co-operation in the 
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space 
(A/C.5/1624, A/9851) 

Report of the Special Committee to 
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting 
the rluman Rights of the Population of the 
Occupied Territories (A/C.5/1629, A/9881, 
General Assembly resolution 3240 A (XXIX)) 

Report of the Special Committee to 
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the 
Human Rights of the Population of the 
Occupied Territories (A/C.5/1609, A/9881, 
C~neral Assembly resolution 3240 C (XXIX)) 

Imple~ntation of the Declaration of the 
Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace 
(A/C.5/1632, A/9925, General Assembly 
resolution 3259 A (XXIX)) 

Aid to the Sudano-Sahelian populations 
threatened with famine (A/C.5/1635, A/9899, 
General Assembly resolution 3253 (XXIX)) 

United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development (A/C.5/1636, A/9933, General 
Assembly resolution 3308 (XXIX)) 

United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development (A/C.5/1638, A/9933, General 
Assembly resolution 3311 (XXIX)) 

Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on 
personnel problems in the United Nations 
and major recommendations of the 
Administrative Management Service 

$ 

514,000 

89,800 

8,400 

78,000 

72,000 

24,000 

25,000 

Reductions 
recommended 
by ACA3Q 

$ 

(5 00CJ) 

(13,000) 

( 30 ,000) 

(6,000) 

(A/C.5/1639, A/9608/Add.l9, A/9980) 309,000b/) 
80,000- ) 

(59,000) 

514,000 

76,800 

8,400 

48,000 

66,000 

24,000 

25,000 

330,000 

I . .. 



Documentation 

II. Financial implications (continued) 

Reduction of the military budgets 
(A/C.5/1641, A/~923, General 
Assembly resolution 3254 (XXIX)) 

Estimates 
proposed by 
Secretary-

General 

27,000 

Printing costs of the United Nations and 
Disarmament (A/C.5/1642, A/9927) 5h .000 

Question of Namibia (A/C.5/1643/Rev.l, 
A/9608/Add.l5, A/9957, General Assembly 
resolution 3295 (XXIX)) 

United Nations Fund for Namibia 
(A/C.5/1644, A/9608/Add.l5, A/995T, 
General Assembly resolution 3296 (XXIX)) 

United Nations Educational and Training 
Programme for Southern Africa 
(A/C.5/1645, A/9958, General AssemblY 
resolution 3301 (XXIX)) 

Report of the Special Committee on 
Apartheid (A/C.5/1646, A/9608/Add,l7, 
A/9956, General Assembly resolution 
3324 (XXIX) ) 

Napalm and other incendiary weapons 
and all aspects of their possible use 
(A/C.5/1647, A/9924, General Assembly 
resolution 3255 A (XXIX) ) 

Report of the International Law 
Commission on the work of its 
twenty-sixth session (A/C.5/1648, 
A/9967, General Assembly resolution 
3315 (XXIX) ) 

Report of the ~conomic and Social 
Council (A/C.5/l649, A/988h, 
A/9978) 

World Disarmament Conference (A/C.5/1650, 
A/9926, General Assembly resolution 
3260 (XXIX) ) 

Co-operation between the United Nations 
and the Organization of African Unity 
(A/C.5/165l, A/9929) 

186,000 

200,000 

100,000 

75,000 

3,600 

151,000 

74,000 

121,500 

25,000 

.'J9960 
English 
Page 39 

Reductions 
recommended 
~CABQ 

$ 

(12 ,000) 

(20,000) 

(125 ,000) 

( 3,000) 

( 3,600) 

( 35 ,000) 

(37,000 

15,000 

36,000 

61,000 

200,000 

100,000 

72,000 

n6,ooo 

37,000 

121,500 

25,000 

/ ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 40 

xxxcc Documentation 

II. Financial im~lications (continued) 

United Nations Relief and Works 
Agen~ for Palestine RefUgees 
in the Near East - Working Group 
(A/C.5/1654, A/9974) 

United Nations Relief and Works 
Agency for Palestine RefUgees 
in the Near East (A/C.5/1655) 
A/9608/Add.21, A/9974) 

Respect for human rights in armed 
conflicts (A/C.5/1656, A/9968, 
General Assembly resolution 
3319 (XXIX) ) 

International Civil Service 
Commission (A/9738/Add.l, A/9891) 

Third United Nations Conference on 
the Law of the Sea (A/C.5/1659, 
A/9608/Add.20, A/9977) 

The review of the Charter of the 
United Nations (A/C.5/166o, A/9970) 

World Population Conference 
(A/C.5/1661, A/9978) 

World Food Conference (A/C.5/1663, 
A/9978) 

World Food Council (A/C.5/1664, 
A/9978) 

Transnational corporations 
(A/C.5/1665, A/9608/Add.22) 

Programme of Action on the 
Establishment of a New International 
Economic Order (A/C.5/1667, 
A/9608/Add.23) 

Estir.1ates 
proposed by 
Secretary-

General 

7,000 

3,219,000 

5,600 

373,400 

• 
3,323,000 

107,000 

8,500 

9,000 

76,900 

703,000 

389,500 

Reductions 
recommended 

by ACABQ A~pro~riation 
$ 

7,000 

3,219,000 

5,600 

446,6oo£1 82o,ooo£1 

(164,000) 3,159,000 

107,000 

8,500 

9,000 

(5;000) 71,900 

f.! I ~· d 703,000 

(211,500) 178,000 

I . .. 



Documentation 

II. Financial implications (continued) 

Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation 
of the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples 
(A/C.5/1657, A/9955) 

Preparatory Connnittee o:f the 
special session of the General 
Assembly (A/C.5/1662, A/9978) 

Total, II 

GRAND TOTAL 

Estimates 
proposed by 
Secretary-

General 

241~500 

91~208 

Reductions 
reconnnended 
by ACAJ3Q 

$ 

(151,500) 

10,867,970 ( 456 ,200) 

75,167,970 ( 9,609,200) 

A/9960 
English 
Page 41 

Appropriation 
$ 

90. 00() 

1C,4ll, 770 

65,556,770 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 42 

Documentation 

B. INCOME ESTD!ATES 

I. Revised estimates 

Report of the International Civil 
Service Advisory Board (A/9709, A/9919) 

Progress report of the Secretary-
General on the programme budget for the 
biennium 1974/1975 (A/9606, 
A/9608/Add.l6) 

Total, I 

II. Financial implications 

Participation in the United Nations 
Conference on the Representation of 
States in Their Relations with 
International Organizations, to be held 
in 1975 (A/C.5/1623, A/9883, General 
Assembly resolution 3247 (XXIX)) 

Internation~l Civil Service Commission 
( A/9783/Add.l, A/9891) 

Implementation of the Declaration of 
the Indian Ocean as a Zone oi' Peace 
(A/C.5/l632, A/9925, General Assembly 
resolution 3259 A (XXIX)) 

Strengthening of tl1e Office of the 
United Nations Disaster Relief 
Co-ordinator (A/C.5/1628, A/9608/Add.ll, 
A/9888, General Assembly resolution 
324 3 (XXIX)) 

Report of the Special CoLwrrttee on 
Aparthid (A/C.5/1646, A/9608/Add.l7) 

Report of the International Law 
Commission (A/C.5/l648, A/9967, General 
Assembly resolution 3315 (XXIX)) 

World Disarmament Conference (A/C. 5/1650, 
A/9926, General Assembly resolution 
3260 (XXIX)) 

Estimates 
submitted by 
Secretary-

General 

$ 

5,889,ooo I 
67,00~ 

3,354,000 

9,310,000 

68,000 

201,700 

13,000 

13,000 

2,000 

22,000 

3,000 

Increase 
or 

(decrease) 
recommended 

b;y ACABQ 

$ 

(3,760,000) 

(40,000) 

(3,800,000) 

564,300£/ 

(5,000) 

(6,000) 

Estimates 
of 

income 

$ 

2,129,ooo I 
67,00~ 

3,314,000 

5,510,000 

68,000 

766,ooo£/ 

3,000 

13,000 

2,000 

16,000 

3,000 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 43 

Increase 
Estimates or 

submitted by (decrease) Estimates 
Secretary- recommended of 

Documentation General by ACABQ income 
~ $ ~ "' 

II. Financial implications (continued) 

United Nations Relief and Horks 
Agency for Palestine Hefugees in the 
Near East (AIC.5Il655, Al9974) 622,000 622,000 

Third United Nations Conference on the 
Lm< of the Sea (fi./C.5Il659, A/9977) 673,000 (5,000) 668,000 

Transnational corporations 
-Y 89,000 (AIC-511665) 89,000 

Programme of Action on the 
Establishment of a New International 
Economic Order (AIC-511667) 58,000 (30,000) 28,000 

Report of the Joint Insnection Unit 
on personnel problems in the United 
!lations and major recommendations of 
the Administrative f'.1anagement Service 
(AIC.511639, AI96081Add.l9) 80,000 80.000 

----· 
Total, II 1,844,700 518' 300 2,363,000 

GRAIID TOTAL 11.,154 "700 (3,281,700) 7,873,000 

'!:_I These additional requirements and income relate to new posts approved for 
the Economic Commission for Western Asia and to the established posts transferred 
from UNRWA to the United !lations budget, upon the adoption by the Fifth Committee, 
at its l693rd meeting, of a 6 ner cent increase i~ net salaries and increases in 
children's allowances and assignment allowances for staff in the Professional 
catego~J and above. 

E) Adjusted to include provision for staff assessment. 

£1 The full costs of the International Civil Service Commission will be 
provided fo' in the United Nations expenditure budget. Reimbursement by other 
participating organizations.will be shown as income. 

,Y The reduction recommended by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions was not adopted by the Fifth Committee at its 1696th meeting. 

• I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 44 

141. Tb_e final requirements under tl1e various sectiorJ.s of the program:Ile budget for 
1974/1975 .. rounded off to the nearest. thousand, are as follo1rs: 

1. Pol:i.cy~·m_~_ing orr.;ans 

Progress report for the biennium 19'74/1975 

Co-operation bet;-:reen the U:nited Nations 
ar,r:l the Ore;c.nization of African Unity 

Revit:;,.r of -t~·1e Charter cf the United Nations 

L:nited ~Jatio;-;s salarv system ~ rer-ort of 

Aro-.,roved under 
General Assembly 

resolution 
_;1195 A (XXVIII_L 

t, 

7~835,000 

the Inter.::tation.al Civil Service Advisory Bo:1rd . ' 
Prograrnme of acJwion on the establishment of a 
nevr intern:s.tionc..l ecol!or:.ic order 

Revised 

886,000 

25,000 

10'7 ,000 

47,000 

130,000 
, ______ 

- -··---------

2. O~_:f_Lc5: s _9f ~Jl~- _.§r:;;c~~~tary-:Q.~n§_ral 

Procr'''ss rerort for the biennium 1974/1975 

Di·c:-:ieren-tial treatment based u:r,>on sex llnder 
tl!E; StafX' Lcgulations and Staff Rules 

l.i:nited 'Tr'3tions salary system - report of 
the Int..:.-:>rnational Civil Service Advisory Board 

T'oJ._·~c.ies of apa.~tl~~J.~- of the -~~overmnent- of 
Soutl"!. Africa 

7::-ir:·:.:iil£ costs of t.t-:Le "Cnited. Nat:i.onS and 
~:li sa-~~ma!nent 

·,·rorld Disarma1:ent Conference 

~q(Tort of the Special Committee on !~~§._:;-thei:i_ 

Ur!i.t,:;:d _i_·:ations salary system - report of 
.iche International Civil Service AdvisoTy Board 

:Jn:i..ted Natio:-1~> I~cl:!_ef 8-~~d t~rorh.s Agency fo•::-
Palestirle Refugees in "i::-,~te Near East - W0rldng 
GroUD 

7~-3~5,000 

7-;068:~000 

--·-- -----
7,003,000 

4,705,000 

• 

4,705,000 

1,195,000 

308,000 

L~, OCO 

119,000 

62,000 
----

)f93,000 

92,000 

4,000 

J6,.ooo 

nB.ooo 
70,000 

33 ,000 

7,000 

Total 

-----·---
9,030,000 

---------· 
7 '561 .. 000 

7.544.ooc 
I . .. 



Approved under 
General Assembly 

resolution 
Expenditure section 3195 A (XXVIII) 

4. Department of Political and 
Security Council Af:t'airs 6, 070,000 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

Implementation of the Declaration of the 
Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace 

Reduction of military budgets 

United Nations Education and Training 
Programme for Southern Africa 

Unite<i Nations Salary System - report of 
the International Civil Service AdvisorJ 
Board 

5. Special missions 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

6. Policy-making •rgans (e.conomic and 
social activities) 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

World Population Conference 

World Food Conference 

World Food Council 

Transnational Corporations 

Preparatory Committee of the special 
session of the General Assembly 

7. Department of Economic and Social 
Affairs 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

Draft Statute of the International Civil 
Service Commission 

United Natir,ns salary system - report f'f the 
International ~ivil Service Advisory Board 

6,070,000 

22,409,000 

22,409,000 

1,883,000 

1,883,000 

32,983,000 

32,983,000 

A/9960 
English 
Pa~e 45 

Revised 
estimates 

$ 

559,000 

4,000 

4o,ooo 

15,000 

100,000 

128,000 
846,ooo 

(93,000) 

1,000 

29,000 
(63,000) 

741,000 

9,000 

9,000 

10,000 

67,000 
• 

69,000 
905,000 

1,455,000 

21,000 

(110,000) 

649,000 
2,015,000 

Total 
$ 

6,916,000 

2,2,346,000 

2,788,000 

34,998,000 
I 



A/9960 
English 
Page 46 

Expenditure section 

7.A Transnational corporations 

8. Economic Commission for Europe 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

9. Economic and Social Commission for 
Asia and the Pacific 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Rel1:lllations and Staff 
Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

10. Economic Commission for Latin America 

Progress repqrt for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and Staff 
Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

• 
11. Economic Commission for Africa 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and Staff 
Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

Approved under 
General Assembly 

resolution 
319 5 A (XXVIII ) 

!> 

10,113,000 

10,113,000 

11,066,000 

11,066,000 

12,677,000 

12,677,000 

13,602,000 

13,602,000 

Revised 
estimates 

~ 

"' 396,000 

909,000 

6,000 

222,000 

1,137,000 

880,000 

9,000 

300,000 

1,189,000 

1,119,000 

8,000 

265,000 

1,392,000 

9,000 

297,000 

306,000 

Total 

'·' 
396,000 

11,250,000 

12,255,000 

14,069,000 

13,908,000 

I ... 



Expenditure section 

12. Economic Commission for Hestern Asia 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

Report of the Economic and Social 
Council (A/9886) 

United !lations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

13. Office of the United Nations Hi~h 
Commissioner for Refugees 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system -· report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

14. United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Develoument 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the Internatinnal Civil Serv~ce Advisory 
Board ' 

United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development 

Approved under 
General Assembly 

A/9960 
English 
Page 47 

resolution · Revised 
3195 A (XXVIII) estimates 

j, 

2,422,000 

1,582,000 

3,000 

37,000 

90,000 

2,422,000 1,712,000 

l0,904,ooo 

1,?88,000 

6,000 

220,000 

Total 
$ 

4,134,000 

10,904,ooo 1,514,000 12,418,000 

28,135,000 

4,460,000 

13,000 

457,000 

49,000 

28,135,000 4,979,000 33,114,000 

I . .. 



pjoc;6o 
"SnR::lish 
Page !J,S 

Exp~nditure section 

15. United Nations ]_n_dus_t;_r_ial_Development 
Organization 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and 
Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

16. United Nations Environment Programme 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and 
Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

17. Office of the United Nations Disaster 
Relief Co-ordinator 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Strengthening of the Office of the United 
Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinat-r 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

18. International narcotics control 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and 
Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system ·- report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

Approved under 
General Assembly 
resolution 
3195 A (XXVIII) 

$ 

30,798,000 

30,798,000 

6,090,000 

6,090,000 

1,018,000 

1,018,000 

2, 704,000 

2,704,000 

Revised 
estimates 

$ 

5,400,000 

18,000 

576,000 

Total 
$ 

5,994,000 36,792,000 

805,000 

2,000 

!38,000 
895,000 

81,000 

57,000 

11,000 
149,000 

339,000 

2,000 

_2+,000 
395,000 

1),985,000 

1,167,000 

3,099,000 

I . .. 



Expenditure section 

Appreved under 
General Assembly 
resolution 
3195 A (XXVIII) 

19. Regular programme of technical assistance 17,966,000 

20. Human rights 4,102,000 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and 
Staff Rules 

Report of the Special Committee to 
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting 
the Human Rights of the Population of 
the Occupied ~erritories 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

21. Policy-making organs (Political affairs, 
trusteeship and decolonization) 

Implementation of the Declaration on 
the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples 

Implementation of the Declaration on 
the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples 

22. Department of Political Aff~irs, 
Trus!eeshJp and Decoloni~_ation 

• Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 
Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and 
Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

4,102,000 

466,000 

466,ooo 

2,922,000 

~.922,000 

Revised 
estimc~..:.es 

~ 
'/ 

547,000 

2,000 

85,000 

78,000 

712,000 

16,000 

90,000 

106,000 

198,000 

2,000 

69,000 

269,000 

I/9?~0 
"n o:li sh 
"•we l19 

Totnl 
~ 

17,966,000 

572,000 

I . .. -



A/oC)f.O 
~nr;lish 

Pa!"e 50 

Approved under 
General Assembly 

resolution Revised 
~xpenditure section 3195 A ( 7 i1JIII) estimates 

23~ L"nited NatiOiiS Council for IJamibie and. 
::ni ted l~ations Commissioner for Ee.mibia 

Procress repo!'t for the biennium l97h/1975 

Question of Namibia 

United nations Fund for Namibia 

United Hatio:1s salary system - report of the 
International Civil Service Advisory Board 

24. International Court of Justice 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Eules 

United Nations salary system - report of the 
International Civil Service Advisory Board 

25. Legal commissions, committees and 
conferences 

Progress report for the biennium 1971~/1975 

Participation in the United Nations Conference 
on the Representation of States in Their 
Relations >rith International Organizations, 
to be held in 1975 

Report of the International Law Commission 
on the work of its twenty-sixth session 

26. Off~ce of Legal Affairs 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

Respect for human rights in armed conflicts 

United Nations salacy system - report of the 
International Civil Service Adv~sory Board 

997JCOO 

991,000 

4,172,000 

t, ,172,000 

1,128,000 

1,128,000 

5,138,000 

5,138,000 

• 

1,000 

61,000 

200,000 

l2,000 

271; ,000 

343,000 

1,000 

34,000 

378,000 

13G,ooo 

446,000 

100,000 

682,000 

282,000 

3,000 

6,000 

88,000 

379,000 

Total 
$ 

1,271,000 

4,550,000 

1,810,000 

5,517,000 

I . .. 



Ex~enditure section 

27. Office uf ~~bli~I?for~atlon 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and Staff 
Rules 

Aid to Sudano-S~~elian popul~tions 
threatened with fa~ine 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

Third United Nations Conference on the 
Law of the Sea 

28. Administration, management and 
general services 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and Staff 
Rules 

Draft Statute of the International 
Civil Service Commission 

Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on 
personnel problems in the United Nations 
and major recommendations of the 
Administrative Management Service 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

Transnational corporations 

Programfle of Action on the Establishment of 
a New International Economic Order 

29. Conference ~Bervi c~ Headquarters 
and Geneva 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex under 
the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

Approved under 
General Asse!"bly 

resolution 
3195 A (XXVIII) 

23,529,000 

23,529,000 

85 ,370,000 

85,370,000 

63,474,000 

63,474,000 

Revised 
estimates 

$ 

1,859,000 

11,000 

66,000 

352,000 

12,000 

A/9960 
En~li.sh 

Page 51 

Total 
--r 

2,300,000 25,829,000 

9,861,000 

18,000 

780,000 

250,000 

562,000 

145,000 

20,000 

11,636,ooo 97,oo6,ooo 

6,306,000 

43,000 

1,297,000 

7,646,000 71,12o,ooo 

I . .. 



A/9C:FO 
~~nr;li sh 
?age 52 Approved under 

General Assembly 
resolution Revised 

Expenditure section 3195 A (XXVIII) estimates Total 

30. LibrarJ services, Headquarters and Geneva 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Differential treatment based upon sex 
under the Staff Regulations and 
Staff Rules 

United Nations salary system - report of 
the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

Transnational corporations 

31. United Nations bond issue 

32. Miscellaneous expenses 

United Nations International School 

Transnational corporations 

33. Construction, alteration, improvement 
and major maintenance of premises 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

34. Staff assessment 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

Participation in the United Nations 
Conference on the Representation of States 
in Their Relations with International 
Organizations, to be held in 1975 

Strengthening of the Office of the United 
Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator 

Implementation of the Declaration of the 
Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace 

International Civil 
Service Commission 

World Disarmament Conference 

Report of the International Law Commission 
on the work of its twenty-sixth session 

7,121,000 

7,121,000 

17,313,000 

592,000 

592,000 

20,606,000 

2o,6o6,ooo 

76,949,000 

Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on personnel 
problems in the United Nations and major 
recommendations of the Administrative Management Service 

Report of the Special Committee on Apartheid 

United Nations salary system- report of the 
International Civil Service Advisory Board 

541,000 

4,000 

138,000 

2,0CO 

$ 

685,000 7,806,000 

17,313 ,ooo 

2,000,000 

4,000 

2,cc4,cco 2,596,ooo 

1,138,000 

1,138,000 21,744,000 

2,821,000 

68,000 

13,000 

8,000 

150,000 

3,000 

16,000 

80,000 

2,000 

2,234,ooo I ... 



Expenditure section 

34. Staff assessment (continued) 

United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
for Palestine RefUgees in the Near 
East 

Third United Nati•ns Conference en the 
Law of the Sea 

Transnational corporati•ns 

P~gramme ef Action en the Establishment 
of a New Internatienal Economic Order 

35. United Nations Relief and Works 
Agency for Palestine RefUgees in 
the Near East 

Appreved under 
General Assembly 

resolution 
3195 A (XXVIII) 

$ 

76,949,000 

United Nati•ns salary system - report of 
the Internatiensl Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

Deduction for internal reproducti•n 

Progress report for the b~ennium 
1974/1975 

Total expenditure~ 

(3,854 ,ooo) 

(3,854,000) 

540,473,000 

Revised 
estimates 

$ 

622,000 

89,000 

28,000 

6,802,000 

2,597,000 

150,000 

2,747,000 

(486,000) 

(486,000) 

65,560,000 

A/99t0 
English 
Pae:e 53 

Total 
$ 

83,751,000 

2 '747 ,000. 

(4,340,000) 

6o6,D33,ooo 

/ ... 



A/99h0 
J:nglish 
PaR:e 54 

Income section 

Approved under 
General Assembly 

res•lution 
3195 B (XXVIII) 

l. Income from staff assessment 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

International Civil Service Commissi•n 

Participation in the United Nations 
Conference on the Representation of 
States in their Relati•ns with International 
Organizations, to be held in 1975 

Strengthening of the Office of the United 
Nati•ns Disaster Relief Co-ordinator 

Implementati•n of the Declaration of the 
Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace 

World DisarmameuL Con:ference 

n~~ort of the Intern~tional Law Commission 
on the work of its twenty-sixth session 

Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on 
personnel problems in the United Nations 
and major recommendati•ns of the 
Administrative Management Service 

Report of the Special Committee on 
Apartheid 

United Nati•ns salary system - report of 
the Internati~nal Civil Service Advisory 
Board 

United Nations Relief and lvorks Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East 

Third United Nati~ns Conference on the Law 
•f the Sea 

Transnatienal corporati•ns 

Programme of Action on the Establishment of 
a New Internati•nal Economic Order 

2. General income 

Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 

International Civil Service Commission 

3. Revenue-producing activities 
Progress report for the biennium 1974/1975 
United Nations salary system - report of the 
International Civil Service Advisory Board 

Total income 

... 
78,210,000 

78,210,000 

7,893,000 

7,893,000 
6, 543,000 

6,543,000 

92,646,000 

Revised 
estimates 

2,879,000 

150,000 

68,000 

13,000 

8,000 

3,000 

16,000 

80,000 

2,000 

2,267,000 

622,000 

668,coo 

89,000 

28,000 

6,893,000 

473,000 

616,000 

1,089,000 

(38,000) 

(71,000) 
(109,000) 

7,873.000 

Total 
$ 

85,103,000 

8,982,000 

6,434,000 

100,519,000 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 55 

142. At its l697th meeting, on 17 December, the Fifth Committee considered the 
revised estimates of the programme oudget for the biennium 1974-1975. The result 
of the voting was as follows: 

Reccrrc:cended 
Expenditure section appropriation In favour Against Abstentions 

s 
l. 9,030,000 60 9 8 

2. 7,561,000 67 10 l 

3 7,544,000 64 9 6 
4. 6,916,000 68 10 2 

5. 22,346,000 66 12 2 
6. 2,788,000 69 10 2 
7. 34,998,000 71 10 3 

7.A. 396,000 62 9 1? 

8. 11,250,000 74 9 2 

9. 12,255,000 73 9 3 

10. 14,069,000 72 9 3 

ll. 13,908,000 74 9 2 

12. 4,134,000 69 0 14 
13. 12,418,000 72 10 l 

14. 33,114,000 73 9 2 

15. 36,792,000 71 9 4 

16. 6,985,000 73 9 2 

n. 1,167,000 75 9 l 
18. 3,099,000 74 8 2 

19. 17,966,000 74 9 2 

20. 4,814,000 72 10 3 

21. 572,000 85 0 0 

22. 3,191,000 74 9 l 

23. 1,271,000 75 0 10 

24. 4,550,000 70 ll 2 

25. 1,810,000 74 8 3 

26. 5,517,000 73 9 2 

27. 25,829,000 74 10 l 

28. 97,006,000 73 10 3 

29. 71,120,000 73 9 4 

30. 7,806,000 74 10 l 

31. 17,313,000 55 16 ll 

32. 2,596,000 72 10 4 

/ ... 



A/)()!CJ 
:~n ·lish 
Par:e 5(, 

Expenditure section 
Re colllll:ended 
appropriation In favour Against .Abstentions 

33. 

34. 

35. 

Deduction for internal 
reproduction 

IncOme section 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Total 

Total income 

(h 
y> 

21,744,000 

83,751,000 

2,747,000 

~340,000) 

6c6 .o 33 ,ceo 

85 ,103,000 

8,982,000 

6,434,000 

100,519.000 

74 9 3-

82 0 3 

aj ,y a_/ 

Unanimous 

Unanimous 

a/ Two separate votes were taken: an amount of ''32,597 ,000 was approved 
unanimously, and an additional amoQnt of ~150,000, being the effect of the 
approval of the proposals contained in the note by the Secretary-·General 
(A/9709, para. 19) by a vote of 62 to 15, with 7 abstentions. 

/ ... 



143. The decisions of the Committee at the current session involved the approval of additional established posts for the 
1974/1975 biennium as follows: 

ESTABLISHED RlSTS 

category and level 

Budget section I. Professional and above II.General Service III. IV. v. 

Total Other Total Local Field Manual 
Total 

USG ASG D-2 D-1 P-5 P-4 P-3 P-2/1 I G-5 levels II level Service Workers 

2. Offices of the Secretary-
General 1 (1) 

7. Department o:f Economic 
and Social Affairs - - - - (1) - - (1) (2) (1) ( 5) (6) - - - (8) 

7.A Transnational corporation - 1 1 2 2 3 2 1 12 4 8 12 - - - 24 
12. Economic Commission for 

Western Asia - - - 4 ll 11 7 (7) 26 - - - 65 - - 91 
17. Office of the United 

Nations Disaster 
Relief Co-ordinator - - - - 1 - 1 - 2 - 2 2 - - - 4 

27. Office of Public 
Information - - - - 1 - (1) 

28. Administration, 
management and 
general services - - 1 - 1 6 - 1 9 2 12 14 - - - 23 

35. United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in 
the Near East - 1 2 10 16 31 17 2 79 - - - 9 - - 88 

TOTAL 1 1 4 16 31 51 26 (4) 126 5 17 22 74 - - 222 
"'!;!> 
" --~"'"' '"'"' ~· "' "'~0 _,.,. 

---._ . . . 



A/9960 
English 
Page 58 

144. At its l697th meeting, on 17 December, the Fifth Committee adopted the draft 
resolution on the programme budget for the biennium 1974-1975 (see para. 146 below, 
draft resolution I). The voting was as follows: 

In favour Against Abstaining 

Draft resolution I A 66 9 8 

" " B 86 0 0 

" " c 67 9 8 

145. The observations and reservations expressed by delegations in explanation of 
the vote on draft resolution I are recorded in the summary record of the Fifth 
Committee (A/C.5/SR.l697). 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIFTif COMMITTEE 

146. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

/ ... 



DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Programme budget f'or the biennium 1974-1975 

A 

Revised budget appropriations f'or the biennium 1974-1975 

The G~neral Assembly 

Resolves that for the biennium 1974-1975: 

l. The total appropriatea by its resolution 31Q5 A (XXVIII) of 

A/9960 
English 
Pa13e 59 

liJ December 1973 be increased to $606,C33,000, which amount is to be applied for 
the t'ollowin~ purposes: 

---------·--
Section US dollars 

l. 

2. 

3. 

4. 
5. 

6. 
7. 
/.A 

8. 

9. 
10. 

n. 
12. 

13. 

14. 

Part I. Over-all poljcy-making, direction and co-~rdinatio~ 

Policy-makin!'; organs 

Offices of the Secretary-General 

9,030,000 

7,561,000 

TOTAL, part I 16,591,000 

Part II. Political and peace-keeping activities 

Policy-making organs 

Department of Political and Security Council Affairs 

Special missions 

7,544,000 

6,916,000 

22,346,000 

TOTAL, part II 36,806,000 

Part III. Economic and social activities 

Policy-making organs 

Department of Economic and Social Affairs 

Transnational corporations 

Economic Commission ror Europe 

Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific 

Economic Ccrrmission f'or Latin America 

Economic Commission for Africa 

Economic Commission for Western Asia 

Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 

United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 

2,788,000 

311 , 998 '000 

396,000 

11,250,000 

12,255,000 

14,069,000 

13,908,000 

4,134,000 

12,418,000 

33,114,000 

I ... 



A/9960 
English 
Page 60 

Section 

15. 

16. 

United Nations Industrial Development Organization 

United Nations Environment Programme •••• 
• • 

17. Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator. 

18. International narcotics control, ••••• 

19. Regular programme of technical assistance, 

• 

US ilollars 

36,792,000 

6,985,000 

1,167,000 

3,099,000 

17,966,000 

TOTAL, part III 205,330,000 

20. 

21. 

Part IV. Human rights 

Human rights • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • 
TOTAL, part IV 

Part V. Political affairs, trusteeship and decolonization 

. . 

Policy-making organs • • , • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

4,814,000 

4,814,000 

572,000 

22. Department of Political Affairs, Trusteeship and Decolonization, 3,191,000 

23. United Nations Council for Namibia and United Nations 

24. 

Co:rr_missioner for ~Tamibia " ••••••••• 

Part VI. International Justice 

International Court of Justice , 

Part VII. ~egal activities 

. . . . . . 

. . . 
TOTAL, part V 

TOTAL, part VI 

25. Legal commissionst committees and conferences • •• 

26. Office of Legal Affairs. , • • • , , , , • • 

. . . 

TOTAL, part VII 

Part VIII. Co~~on services 

27. Office of Public Information . . . . . . . . . • 
28. Administration~ management and general services. 

29. Conferences services • • • • 
30. Library services •••• • • • 

1,271,000 

5,034,000 

4,550,000 

4,550,000 

1,810,000 

5,517,000 

7,327,000 

25,829,000 

07,00(,000 

71,120,000 

7,Bo6,ooo 

TOTAL, part VIII 201, 7r;1, OOOc 

I . .. 



A/99h0 
English 
Page 61 

Section US dollars 

Part IX. Special expenses 

31. United Nations bond issue 

32. Miscellaneous expenses 

TOTAL, part IX 

Part X. Premises 

33. Construction, alteration, improvement and major maintenance 
of premises . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 

TOTAL , part X 

Part XI. Staff assessment 

34. Staff assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
TOTAL, part XI 

Part XII. United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 

35. United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East • . • 

TOTAL, part XII 

TOTAL, parts I to XII 

Printing: deduction for internal reproduction 

GRAND TOTAL 

17,313,000 

2,596,000 

19,909,000 

21,744,000 

21,744,ood' 

83,751,000 

83,751,000 

2,747,000 

2,747,000 

(4,340,000) 

606,033,000 

2. The Secretary-General shall be authorized to transfer credits between 
sections of the budget with the concurrence of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions; 

3. The total net provision made under the various sections of the budget for 
contractual printing shall be administered as a unit under the direction of the 
United Nations Publications Board; 

I . .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 62 

4. The appropriations for technical assistance programmes under part III, 
section 19, shall be administered in accordance with the Financial Regulations of 
the United Nations, except that the definition of obligations and the period of 
validity of obligations shall be subject to the following procedures: 

(a} Obligations for personal services established in the current biennium 
shall be valid for the succ~eding bi~nr.ium, provided that appointments of the 
experts concerned are effected by the end of the current biennium, and that the 
total period to be covered by obligations established for these purposes against 
the resources of the current biennium shall not exceed 24 man-months; 

(b) Obligations established in the current biennium for fellowships shall 
remain valid until liquidated, provided that the fellow has been nominated by the 
requesting Government and accepted by the Organization and that a formal letter 
of award has been issued to the requesting Government; 

(c) 
equipment 
effected 

Obligations in respect of contracts or purchase orders for supplies 
recorded in the current biennium will remain valid until payment is 

to the contractor or vendor, unless the'' are cancelled~ 

or 

5. In addition to the appropriations voted under paragraph l above, amounts 
of $29,000 and $19,000 are appropriated for 1974 and 1975, respectively, from 
the accumulated income of the Library Endowment Fund for the purchase of books , 
periodicals, maps and library equipment and for such other expenses of the Library 
at the Palais des Nations as are in accordance with the otjects and provisions 
of the ~ndowment. 

I . .. 



B 

Revise<" inco,'le estimates fo:r tloe biPnnium 1974--1075 

ReElo_l_v-"~ trat for the biennium 107!~. -1075: 

A/9960 
ll;n<>:lis'l 
Pa~e 63 

l. The total estimates of income other than assessments on Member States 
approve<l. 'by its resolution -31<:'5 B (CC~VIII) of 1fl December 1"'73 be increaseil: to 
)US lCO ,519,000, · vrhich ,p.Jnou:lt· is to be distributecl as follo1.,.s: 

Income section US dollars 

Part I. Income from staff assessment 

1. Income from staff assessment • • • . , 

Part II. Other income 

2. General income • • • • 

3. Revenue-producing activities 

. . . . . . . . . . . 
TOTAL, part I 

TOTAL, part II 

GRAND TOTAL 

85,103,000 

85,10!!,000 

8,982,000 

6,434,000 

15,416,000 

100,519,000 

2. The income from staff assessment shall be credited t~ the Tax 
Equalization Fund in accordance with the provisions of General Assembly resoluti•n 
973 (X) of 15 December 1955; 

3. Direct expenses of the United Nations P9ftal Administration, services to 
visit•rs, catering and related services, television services and the sale of 
publications, not provided for under the budget appropriatirns, shall be charged 
against the income derived from those activities. 

/ ... 



A/9960 
Engl:i.sh 
Page 64 

c 

Financing of revisen_ aprro:priations for the year 1975 

The General Assembly, 

Resolves that for the year 1975: 

l. Budget appropriations totalling $US 335,796,500 consisting of 
$US 270,236,500, being one half of the appropriations approved for the biennium 
1974-1975, under General Assembly resolution 3195 A (XXVIII) and $US 65,560,000, 
being the additional appropriation approved for the same biennium at the current 
session, shall be financed in accordance with regulations 5.1 and 5.2 of the 
Financial Regulations of the United Nations as follows: 

(a) $7,218,000 being half of the estimated income other than staff assessment 
approved for the biennium 1974-1975 under General Assembly resolution 3 
3195 A (XXVIII); 

(b) $980,000 being the estimated additional income other than staff 
assessment approved for the biennium 1974-1975 at the current session; 

(c) $2,523,344 being the adjusted balance available in the surplus account 
at the end of 1973; 

(d) $325,075,156 by the assessment on Member states in accordance with 
General Assembly resolution 3062 (XXVIII) of 9 November 1973 on the scale of 
assessments for the years 1974, 1975 and 1976. 

2. There shall be set off against the assessment on Member States, in 
accordance with the provisions of General Assembly resolution 973 (X) of 
15 Dece~ber 1955, their respective share in the Tax Equalization Fund in a total 
amount of $US 44,925,667 consisting of: 

(a) $39,105,000 being half of the estimated staff assessment income approved 
for the biennium 1974-1975 under General Assembly resolution 3195 B (XXVIII); 

• 

(b) $6,893,000 being the estimated additional staff assessment income appr"ved 
for the biennium 1974-1975 at the current session; 

(c) Less ~1,072,333, of which $668,683 is the shortfall of actual staff 
assessment income over the revised estimates of 1973 and $403,650 the adjustment 
relating to 1972 accounts. 

/ ... 



DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

The effect of continuing currency instability on the budgets 
of organizations in the United Nations system 

The General Assembly, 

A/9960 
English 
Page 65 

Bearing in mind the provisions of Article 17 of the Charter of the United 
Nations, 

1. Notes with apPreciation the report of the Working Group on Currency 
Instability, 13/ which, in accordance with its terms of reference, considered 
alternative solutions to the difficulties resuloing from the effects of currency 
instability and inflation on the budgets of organizations in the United Nations 
system; 

2. Notes further the report of the Administrative Committee on 
Co-ordination; 14/ 

3. Notes, in particular, the statement by the Working Group in paragraph 10 
of its report that currency fluctuations and inflationary pressures were likely to 
continue and that there would probably be no early return to fixed values; 

4. Notes that the Working Group found no generally agreed alternatives to 
policies already being utilized in the United Nations and related agencies; 

5. Tskes particular note of the statement of the representative of the 
Secretary-General cont.irlned in paragraph 7 of the report of the Working Group 
which stressed that payment by Member States in accordance with the Financial 
Regulations of the United Nations and the elimination of the short-term deficit 
of the Organization would resolve many of the currency problems faced by the United 
Nations, and, in turn, obviate in large measure the need for solutions; 

6. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with his colleagues in 
the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination, to keep these problems under review, 
taking into account the report of the Working Group, the views expressed during the 
consideration of the agenda item during the twenty-ninth session, and other views 

·that may be expressed by or received from Member States, and to report to the 
General Assembly at its thirtieth session; 

7. ~Fu=rt=hc:e:.:r'---'r'-'e"'g,_,u00e::.:se,to:::s"- the Secretary-General, in 
review, to ensure that the programmes and activities 
countries are not adversely affected. 

13/ A/9713. 

14/ A/C.5/l622, annex. 

. . 
keep1ng these problems under 
concerning the developing 

/ ... 



A/996o 
English 
Page 66 

147. The Fifth Co~mittee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft decisions: 

(a) The General Assembly takes note of the report of the Secretary-General 
on standards of accommodation for official travel of United Nations staff by 
air; 15/ 

(b) The General Assembly: 

(i) Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the staffing of 
the Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Special Political 
Affairs; 16/ 

(ii) Approves the proposal appearing in paragraph 3 of that report, 
account being taken of the comments of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and it being understood 
that the Secretary-General would seek the necessary appropriation 
in his report on programme budget performance for the biennium 
1974-1975. 

(c) The General Assembly: 

(i) Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on public 
information policies and activities; 17/ 

(ii) Endorses the comments of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions contained in paragraph 2 of its report. 18/ 

(d) The General Assembly: 

15/ 

16/ 

17/ 

w 
19/ 

20/ 

21/ 

22/ 

(i) Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on United Nations 
accommodation in Addis Ababa, Bangkok and Santiago 19/ and of the 
related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions; 20/ 

(ii) Takes note of the addendum to the report of the Secretary-General 21/ 
and concurs with the observations and recommendations of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
contained in paragraphs 7 to 15 of its report. 22/ 

A/C.5/1593. 

A/C.5/l602. 

A/C.5/l605. 

A/9608/Add.3. 

A/C.5/l596. 

A/9608/Add.4. 

A/C.5/l596/Add.l. 

A/9608/ Add.l4. 

I ... 



Al9960 
English 
Page 67 

(e) The General Assembly: 

(i) Takes note of the report of the Joint Inspection Unit on 
communications in the United Nations system; 231 

(ii) Takes note of the observations of the Administrative Committee on 
Co-ordination thereon; 241 

(iii) Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled "Survey 
of United Nations telecommunications and forecast of requirements 
for the period 1974-1983"; 25/ 

(iv) Endorses the observations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions in its report. 261 

(f) The General Assembly: 

(i) Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the 
programme of major maintenance and improvements to the Palais des 
Nations, Geneva 271 and on measures to improve the use of 
accommodations in-Geneva; 281 

(ii) Endorses the comments of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions contained in paragraphs 9, l4 and l6 of its 
report. 291 

(g) The General Assembly: 

231 

241 

251 

261 

2/l 

281 

291 

301 

3ll 

(i) Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General on administrative 
arrangements for the UNCTADIGATT International Trade Centre; 301 

(ii) Endorses the conclusions of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions in its report; 3ll 

(iii) Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at 
its thirtieth session on this question. 

Al9067. 

Al9067 I Add.l. 

AIC.5Il540IRev.l. 

AI96081 Add. 7. 

AIC.5Il606. 

AIC.5Il60/. 

A/96081 Add. 8. 

AIC.5Il604. 

A/96081Add.9. 
I: .. 



A/9960 
English 
Page 68 

(h) The General Assembly concurs with the observations and recommendations 
contained in paragraphs 3, 5, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the report of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in document A/9608/Add.l. 

(i) The General Assembly takes note of the report of the Advisory Committee 
on Administ>ative and Budgetary Questions on the mstallation of mechanical means 
of voting 32/ and concurs with the observations and recommendations in 
paragraphs 3 to 6 thereof. 

(,j) The General Assembly: 

(i) Takes note of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions 33/ and concurs with the observations and 
sug'gestions contained in paragraphs 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12 and 13 
therein; 

(ii) Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General; 34/ 

(iii) Takes note of chapter VII, section 4, of the report of the Economic 
and Social Council. 35/ 

(k) The General Assembly: 

(i) Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General; 36/ 

(ii) Endorses the observations and conclusions contained in 
paragraphs 3 to 6 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions. 37/ 

(l) The General Assembly postpones to its thirtieth session the consideration 
of the question of the separate preparation and submission of the programmes and 
budget of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and of the 
adrninistrati ve autonomy for that organization. 

(I!!) The General Assembly decides that consideration of the report of the Joint 
Inspection Unit on the utilization of office accommodation at United Nations 
Headquarters 38/ be postponed to the thirtieth session. 

148. The Fifth Committee also recommends that the General Assembly should take note 
of the decisions of the Committee set forth in paragraphs 30 and 103 of the present 
report. 

32/ A/9608/Add.2. 

33/ A/9608/Add.lO and Corr.l. 

34/ A/C.5/1595 and A/C.5/1599. 

35/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. 3 (A/9603). 

36/ A/C.5/l597. 

37/ A/9608/Add.6 
38/ A/9854. 




