
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 104 

QUESTION OF KOREA 

Report of the First Committee 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9973 
16 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Rapporteur: Hr. Antonio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

1. In a letter dated 16 August 1974 addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9703), 
the representatives of Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, China, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Equatorial 
Guinea, the German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Hungary, Iraq, the Libyan Arab 
Republic, Hadagascar, Mali, Halta, Mauritania, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, Somalia, 
the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Republic of Tanzania, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia and Zambia requested the inclusion in the agenda of the twenty-ninth 
session of the General Assembly of a supplementary item entitled "Withdrawal of all 
the foreign troops stationed in South Korea under the flag of the United Nations". 
Subsequently, Senegal (A/9703/Add.l) and Egypt (A/9703/Add.2) became co-sponsors 
of the request. The item was included in the draft agenda of the twenty-ninth 
session as item 106. 

2. In a letter dated 3 September 1974 addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9741), 
the representatives of Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Thailand, the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America 
requested the inclusion in the agenda of the twenty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly of an additional item entitled "Urgent need to implement fully the 
consensus of the twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly on the Koreru1 
question and to maintain peace and security on the Korean peninsula". Subsequently, 
the Philippines (A/9741/Add.l); Costa Rica and Paraguay (A/9·,·41/Add.2); Bolivia, 
Canada, Germany (Federal Republic of), Haiti, Liberia and Nicaragua (A/9741/Add.3); 
the Central African Republic, the Gambia and Uruguay (A/9741/Add.4); and 
Colombia (A/974l/Add.5 and Corr.l) became co-sponsors of the request for the 
inclusion of the item in the .agenda. ~e item was included in the draft agenda of 
the twenty-ninth session as item 110. 

74-35942 I ... 



A/9973 
English 
Page 2 

3. At its 219th meeting, on 19 September 1974, the General Committee recommended 
that items 106 and 110 of the draft agenda should be included in the agenda of 
the twenty-ninth session and should be combined as subitems under the heading 
"Question of Korea" as follows: 

"Question of Korea: 

(a) Withdrawal of all the foreign troops stationed in South Korea under the 
flag of the United Nations; 

(b) Urgent need to implement fully the consensus of the twenty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly on the Korean question and to maintain 
peace and security on the Korean peninsula. " 

The General Committee also recommended that the item should be allocated to the 
First Committee. 

4. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly 
adopted the recommendations of the General Committee. 

5. At its l987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided 
unanimously to invite the two Korean delegations to participate in the discussion 
on the question of Korea without the right to vote. Accordingly, the Secretary-
General addressed communications to the Governments concerned, informing them of 
the decision of the First Committee and requesting them to communicate to him 
the names of the representatives whom they would be designating for this purpose. 

6. On 2 October, the Secretary-General received a communication from the 
Permanent Observer of the Republic of Korea to the United Nations informing him 
that the Government of the Republic of Korea would be represented by its Minister 
for Foreign Affairs during the discuss5on of the Korean question. Similarly, the 
Secretary-General received a communication, dated 4 November, from the Permanent 
Observer of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations, 
informing him that the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea had 
decided to send its delegation to participate in the discussions on Korea at the 
twenty-ninth session. 

7. At the 2027th meeting, on 22 November, the Committee agreed to a proposal 
made by the representative of Algeria to the effect that the Committee would meet 
on 25 November to hear a statement by the representative of the Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea, and on 26 November to hear a statement by the representative of 
the Republic of Korea. After those statements, the Committee would suspend 
consideration of the item until the end of the debate in the General Assembly on 
agenda item 25, entitled "Restoration of the lawful rights of the Royal Government 
of National Union of Cambodia in the Unite~ Nations". The representative of the 
Republic of KOrea subsequently requested that his statement be postponed. 

8. Accordingly, the First Committee considered the item at its 2029th meeting, 
on 25 November, and at its 203lst to 2039th meetings, held between 29 November 
and 9 December. 

I ... 



A/9973 
English 
Page 3 

9. The First Committee had before it the following draft resolutions: 

(a) A draft resolution dated 7 October (A/C.l/L.676), which replaced the 
draft resolution that had been transmitted as ~n attachment to the initial letter 
dated 3 September from six Member States (A/9741) containing the request for the 
inclusion of the item entitled "Urgent need to implement fully the consensus of 
the twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly on the Korean question and to 
maintain peace and security on the Korean peninsula", sponsored by Bolivia, 
Canada, the Central African Republic, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, 
El Salvador, the Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), Guatemala, Haiti, Japan, 
Lesotho, Liberia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Paraguay, the 
Philippines, Thailand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
the United States of America and Uruguay and subsequently co-sponsored by Barbados, 
Gabon, Grenada, Oman and Panama. It read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Desiring that progress be made towards the attainment of the goal of 
peaceful reunification of Korea on the basis of the freely expressed will of 
the Korean people, 

"Recalling its satisfaction with the issuance of the joint communique 
at Seoul and Pyongyang on 4 July 1972 and the declared intention of both 
the South and the North of Korea to continue the dialogue between them, 

"Aware, however, that tension in Korea has not been totally eliminated 
and that the Armistice Agreement of 27 July 1953 remains indispensable to 
the maintenance of peace and security in the area, 

"Recognizing that, in accordance with the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations regarding the maintenance of international 
peace and security, the United Nations has a continuing responsibility to 
ensure the attainment of this goal on the Korean peninsula, 

!fl. 

statement 
the South 

Reaffirms the wishes of its members, as expressed in 
adopted by the General Assembly on 28 November 1973, 
and the North of Korea to continue their dialogue to 

peaceful reunification of Kore&; 

the consensus 
and urges both 
expedite the 

"2. Expresses the hope that the Security Council, bearing in mind the 
need to ensure continued adherence to the Armistice Agreement and the full 
maintenance of peace and security in the area, will in due course give 
consideration, in consultation with the parties directly concerned, to those 
aspects of the Korean question, including the future of the United Nations 
Command, which fall within its responsibility." 

(b) A draft resolution dated 7 October (A/C.l/L.677), originally submitted 
in a letter dated 16 September from the representative of Algeria on behalf of 
the co-sponsors as an addendum (A/9703/Add.3) to the initial request by 37 Member 
States for inclusion in the agenda of the item entitled ''Withdrawal of all the 

I . .. 



A/9973 
English 
Page 4 

foreign troops stationed in South Korea under the flag of the United Nations", 
sponsored by Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, China, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, 
Equatorial Guinea, the Germa~mocratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, 
Irag, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, 
Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, the Sudan, the Syrian 
Arab Republic, Togo, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, the United Republic of Tanzania, Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zambia 
and subsequently co-sponsored by Dahomey, Uganda and the Upper Volta. It read as 
follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Noting that the reunification of Korea has not been realized although 
over 29 years have elapsed since the division of Korea into the North and the 
South and 21 years since the realization of the armistice in Korea, 

"Considering that the General Assembly at its twenty-eighth session, on 
28 November 1973, l/ decided to dissolve immediately the 'United Nations 
Commission for the-Unification and Rehabilitation of Korea', expressing the 
hope that the North and the South of Korea would continue their dialogue in 
the spirit of the joint statement of 4 July 1972 and widen their many-sided 
exchanges and co-operation so as to expedite the independent and peaceful 
reunification of the country, 

"Noting, however, that the desire of the States Members of the United 
Nations expressed in the decision of the General Assembly has failed to be 
realized, 

"Recognizing that the continued presence of the foreign troops in South 
Korea and the continuation of the interference of the outside forces in the 
internal affairs of Korea constitute a serious obstacle in the way of 
promoting a dialogue between the North and the South for the independent and 
peaceful reunification of the country and turning the armistice in. Korea 
into a durable peace, 

"Believing that it is in conformity with the principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations to terminate fore~gn interference in Korea, encourage 
to the full extent the realization of the independent and peaceful 
reunification at the earliest possible date through successful promotion of 
the dialogue between the North and the South on the three principles of 
independence, peaceful reunification and great national unity as stipulated 
in the North-South joint stacement and create favourable conditions for it, 

"l. Considers that it is necessary to withdraw all the foreign troops 
stationed in South Korea under the flag of the United Nations; 

!f See A/PV.218l. 

I . .. 



A/9973 
English 
Page 5 

"2. Expresses its confidence that the parties directly concerned will 
take appropriate steps for the solution of the questions related to the 
withdrawal of all the foreign troops stationed in South Korea under the flag 
of the United Nations." 

10. At the 203lst meeting, on 29 November, the Chairman drew attention to an 
amendment contained in document A/C.l/1.704, submitted by France to draft 
resolution A/C.l/1.676. According to the amendment, in operative paragraph 2 of 
the draft resolution the words "including the future of the United Nations 
Command" would be replaced as follows: "including the dissolution of the United 
Nations Command in conjunction with arrangements calculated to preserve the 
Armistice Agreement". 

ll. Also at the same meeting, the Chairman further announced that, in connexion 
with the amendment (A/C.l/1.704), the representative of France had requested that, 
inasmuch as the English text did not accurately rEflect the sense of the original 
French, a correction be made to the English text only, whereby the words 
"calculated to preserve", which appeared in the last line of the amendment, would 
be replaced by the words "to maintain" (A/C.l/1. 704/Corr.l). 

12. At the 2035th meeting, on 4 December, the representative of Liberia, on 
behalf of the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.l/1.676, announced that the 
sponsors had agreed to accept the amendment and correction proposed by France 
and had therefore agreed to the submission of a revision of the draft 
resolution (A/C.l/1.676/Rev.l) which would incorporate the corrected French 
amendment. 

13. At the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia introduced an 
amendment (A/C.l/1.705) to operative paragraph 2 of the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.l/1.676/Rev.l), whereby the words "with the arrangements to maintain the 
Armistice Agreement" would be replaced by the words "with appropriate arrangements 
calculated to preserve peace and security in the Korean peninsula pending 
negotiations and conciliation between the two Korean Governments", and the words 
"which fall within its responsibility" would be deleted. 

14. At the 2036th meeting, on 5 December, the representative of Tunisia read out 
a series of informal proposals made by his delegation which, in his view, could 
serve as a preliminary draft resolution for the purpose of consultations between 
the parties concerned. At the 2037th meeting, on 6 December, the representative 
of Tunisia read out oral amendments to the proposals made by his delegation. 

15. Also at the 2037th meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia introduced a 
series of proposals which, in his view, could constitute a working naper, or one 
of the working papers,, for the two parties concerned, and which might serve as a 
basis of negotiation for the parties directly involved. At the request of the 
representative of Saudi Arabia, the Committee decided to include in the 
Rapporteur's report the text of the series of proposals made by the representative 
of Saudi Arabia, as follows: 

/ ... 



A/9973 
English 
Page 6 

"Noting that the artificial separation of the Korean people at the 38th 
parallel was the outcome of political arrangements agreed upon by the major 
Powers to serve extraneous strategic and ideological interests, notwithstanding 
the fact that ethnologically, culturally and linguistically the people of the 
whole Korean peninsula constitute a single national entity, 

"Expressing the hope that, in the spirit of universality, the Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea will resume constructive 
negotiations with a view to reunification, by merger, confederation or any 
other political instrumentality they deem fit, so·fthat they may ultimately 
consider membership in the United Nations as a single national State and 
thereby further the means for promoting the maint~nance of peace and security 
in the area, ., 

"Recognizing that if all Powers, and especially the major Powers, refrain 
from interfering in the internal affairs of Korea and undertake to respect the 
sovereignty of the Korean people as a whole, regardless of the two ideological 
systems to which the t•o parties respectively adh¢re, a satisfactory solution 
to the problem of Korea might then be easily found, · 

"1. Expresses the hope that, as soon as the. Democratic People's Republic 
of Korea and the Republic of Korea resume negotiations, both parties will take 
into account that genuine neutrality might ultimately be the solution to the 
Korean problem; 

"2. In order to achieve this objective, app~als to the parties 
concerned to give new and serious consideration to the following: 

(a) The Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea 
undertake not to join coalitions or military alliances directed against each 
other or any other Power that pursued policies which resulted in dividing the 
Korean peninsula into two zones separated at the 38th parallel; 

(b) The States that were militarily and otherwise involved in the 
Korean peninsula and all States Members of the United Nations, and r;specially 
those in the region, undertake not to interfere, overtly or covertly, in the 
domestic affairs of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic 
of Korea. 11 

16. At the 2039th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Saudi Arabia 
introduced a revised amendment (A/C.l/L.705/Rev.l) to the revised draft resolution 
contained in document A/C.l/L.676/Rev.l, whereby operative paragraph 2 of the 
revised draft resolution would be ~Ended to read as follows: 

"2. Exoresses the hope that the Security Counci;L, bearing in mind the 
need to ensure continued adherence to the Armistice Agreement and the full 
maintenance of peace and security in the area, will in due course give 
consideration, in consultation with the parties directly concerned, to those 
aspects of the Korean question which fall within its responsibilities, 

/ ... 



A/9973 
English 
Page 7 

including the dissolution of the United Nations Command in conjunction with 
appropriate arrangements to maintain the Armistice Agreement which is 
calculated to preserve peace and security in the Korean peninsula, pending 
negotiations and conciliation between the two Korean Governments leading to 
a lasting peace between them." 

17. At the same meeting, following a statement by the Chairman in which he 
explained the procedure to be followed in voting on the draft resolutions and 
amendment before the Committee in accordance with rule 131 of the rules of 
procedure of the General As~mbly, the Committee proceeded to vote on the_two 
draft resolutions and the revised amendment before it, namely, A/C.l/L.67L/Rev.l, 
A/C.l/L.677 and A/C.l/L.705/Rev.l. 

18. Following a procedural discussion, the Committee first voted on a proposal 
made by the representative of Cuba that priority be given to draft resolution 
A/C.l/L.677. The proposal was rejected by 50 votes to 48, with 33 abstentions. 

19. The Committee voted next on the revised amendment submitted by Saudi Arabia 
(A/C.l/L.705/Rev.l) to revis~d draft resolution A/C.l/L.676/Rev.l. The revised 
amendment was adopted by a roll-call vote of 57 to 43, with 35 abstentions. The 
voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia,.Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, 
Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Gabon, 
Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Grenada, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Khmer Republic, Lesotho, 
Liberia, Luxembourg, Mauritius, Morocco, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, 
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

Against: Albania, Algeria, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, German 
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iraq, 
Kuwait, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mongolia, Niger, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, 
Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, 
Zambia. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, 
Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Ghana, Guyana, 
India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Lebanon, Malawi, Malaysia, 
Mexico, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, Zaire. 

I . .. 



A/9973 
English 
Page 8 

20. The revised draft resolution (A/C.l/L.676/Rev.l) as a whole, as amended, was 
adopted by a roll-call vote of 61 to 42, with 32 abstentions (see para. 23 below). 
The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, 
Gabon, Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Grenada, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, .Japan, Jordan, Khmer Republic, Lesotho, 
Liberia, Luxembourg, Mauritius, Morocco, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Philippines, 
Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Swaziland, Sweilen, 
Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

Against: Albania, Algeria, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, German 
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iraq, 
Kuwait, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, 
Mongolia, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Uhion of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, 
Cyprus, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guyana, India, Indonesia, 
.Jamaica, Kenya, Lebanon, Malawi, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Niger, 
Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, 
Trinidad and Tobago, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Cameroon, Zaire. 

21. The Committee then voted on a proposal made at the meeting by the 
representative of Barbados to the effect that in the event the revised draft 
resolution (A/C.l/L.676/Rev.l), as amended, was adopted, the Committee would not 
proceed to a vote on draft resolution A/C.l/L.677. The proposal was rejected by 
a roll-call vote of 57 to 48, with 30 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, 
Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Gabon, 
Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), Grenada, Guatemala, 
Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, 
Japan, Khmer Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, 
Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, 
Uruguay, Venezuela. 

I . .. 



A/9973 
English 
Page 9 

Against: Albania, Algeria, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, 
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana, Hungary, Iraq, Jamaica, Kuwait, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, 
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, 
Cyprus, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Greece, India, 
Indonesia, Iran, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Malawi, Malaysia, 
Morocco, Peru, Portugal, Qatar, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, 
Sweden, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates. 

22. Finally, the Committee took a recorded vote on draft resolution A/C.l/L.677. 
There were 48 votes in favour and 48 against, with 38 abstentions. The draft 
resolution therefore was not adopted. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Albania, Algeria, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, German 
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, 
Hungary, Iraq, Jamaica, Kuwait, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, Niger, Nigeria, Poland, 
Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Togo, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia 

Australia, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rir.a, Denmark, 
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Gabon, Gambia, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, 
Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, 
Khmer Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Philippines, 
Saudi Arabia, Swaziland, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, 
Uruguay, Venezuela. 

I . .. 



A/9973 
English 
Page 10 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Bhutan, Burma, Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, 
India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Malawi, Malaysia, 
Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, 
Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Cameroon, Zaire. 

RECOI!Jt1ENDATION OF '!'HE FIRST COMMITTEE 

23. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

~uestion of Korea 

The General Assembly, 

Desiring that progress be made towards the attainment of the goal of peaceful 
reunification of Korea on the basis of the freely expressed will of the Korean 
people, 

Recalling its satisfaction with the issuance of the joint communig_ue at Seoul 
and Pyongyang on 4 July 1972 and the declared intention of both the South and the 
North of Korea to continue the dialogue between them, 

Aware, however, that tension in Korea has not been totally eliminated and that 
the Armistice Agreement of 27 July 1953 remains indispensable to the maintenance of 
peace and security in the area~ 

Recognizing that, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations regarding the maintenance of international peace and 
security, the United Nations has a continuing responsibility to ensure the 
attainment of this goal on the Korean peninsula, 

1. Reaffirms the wishes of its members, as expressed in the consensus 
statement adopted by the General Assembly on 28 November 1973, ?} and urges both 
the South and the North of Korea to continue their dialogue to expedite the 
peaceful reunification of Korea; 

2. Expresses the hope that the Security Council, bearing in mind the need to 
ensure continued adherence to the Armistice Agreement and the full maintenance of 
peace and security in the area, will in due course give consideration'} in 
consultation with the parties directly concerned, to those aspects of the Korean 
g_uestion which fall within its responsibilities, including the dissolution of the 
United Nations Command in conjunction with appropriate arrangements to maintain the 
Armistice Agreement which is calculated to preserve peace and security in the 
Korean peninsula, pending negotiations and conciliation between the two Korean 
Governments leading to a lasting peace between them. 

2/ See Official Re'cords of the General Assembly, Twenty-eighth Session, 
Suppl;ment No. 30 (A/9030), p. 24. item 41. 




