
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 37 

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Report of the Special Political Committee 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/993l<'&v,.,( 
6 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Rapporteur: Mr. Hassan ABDULDJALIL (Indonesia) 

CONTENTS 

Paragraphs Page 

I. INTRODUCTION •.• 1 - 10 2 

II. DRAFT RESOLUTIONS ll - 22 4 

III. RECOIIII>1ENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL COMMITT!lll 23 9 

yi~-34 720 I . .. 



A/9931 
English 
Page 2 

1. rl1he i tern entitled: 

I. INTRODUCT'ION 

'Policies of Apartheid of the Government of South Africa: 

,., (a) Reports of the Special Committee or; Apartheid; 

"(b) Report of the Secretary-General" 

v.~as included in the provisional agenda of the tvrenty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly in accordance with resolution l9T8 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963. 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September, the General Assembly, on the 
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the agenda 
and to allocate it to the Special Political Committee for consideration and report. 

3. The Special Political Cmmoittee considered the item at its 906th meeting on 
. 26 September, at its 908th to 92lst r"eetings, from 7 to 28 October, at its 
926th meeting, on 4 November, and at its 937th to 9h0th meetings, from 22 to 
28 November. 

4. The following documents relating to the item had been issued before the 
O])ening of the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly: 

(a) !late verb ale dated 19 !~arch 1974 addressed to the Secretary-General by 
the Permanent Mission of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the 
United l"ations (A/9586-S/11237); 

(b) Report of the Snecial Cormnittee on Apartheid concerning the assassination 
of Mr. Onkgopotse AbrahaEt Tiro. and Mr. John Dube (A/959l-S/II254); 

(c) Letter dated 18 April 1974 from the Permanent Representative of South 
Africa to th<e United Jl!ations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/9594-S/II271); 

(d) Lett><er d.at'"d 29 April 1974 from the Permanent Representative of Bulgaria 
to the United !Ja.tions "ddressed to the Secretary-General (A/9597); 

(e) Letter dated. 11, June 1971+ from the Permanent Representative of South 
Africa to the United liations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9651); 

(f) Report of the SpeciCcl CoPmtittee on Apartheid concerning the killing of 
African mine ·vrorkers at the Lorraine Gold Mine in South Africa 
(A/9h53-S/ll328); 

(g) Letter dat8d. 19 July 1974 from the Perrctanent Representative of South 
Africa to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/9664-S/11383). 

I . .. 



5. The Committee also had 
opening of the twenty-ninth 

before it the following docu:rnents 
session of the GGneral Assembly: 

A/9931 
English 
Page 3 

issued after the 

(a) Report of -che Special Committee on Apartheid; Y 
(b) Report of the Special Comnittee en Apartheid on violatio!ls of the Charter 

of the United Nations and resolutions of the General Asse!'lbly and the 
Security Council by the South African regime (A/<)780); 

(c) Report of the Special Corrmittee on Auartheid on :<.rbitrary laws and 
regulations enacted and applied by the South African regime to repress 
the legitimate struggle for freedocn (A/97lll); 

(d) Report of the Special Committee on Apartheid or; assistance provided by 
Governments and non-governmental oruaniz2.tions to the oppressed people 
of South Africa and their liberatim1 movements (A/9Cl03); 

(e) Report of the Special Committee c;n ~:partheid on e.ctions against apar-cheid 
taken by specialized agencies and oi:her intergovernmental organiZations 
(A/9804 and Corr.l); 

(f) R~port of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Trust Fund for 
South Africa (A/9806 and Corr.l and Add.l); 

(g) Letter dated 7 i•!ovember 19"{4 front the Perman2nt Representative of Uganda 
to the Unit eel !lations transmitting a mc:?sage dated 2 November 19'74 from 
the President of the Republic of Uganda to the President of the People's 
Democratic Republic of Algeria (A/9848-S/11555); 

(h) Letter dated 8 November 197l1 fronc the Chairman of the Special Committee 
on Apartheid transmitting a staten1ent by the Chc.drman of the Special 
Committee on Anarthe.id on ''wanoeuvr1~s" of Soc:th Africa (A/9849). 

6. As stated in its first report (A/97'!1,), the Special Political Committee, at 
its 906th meeting, on 26 September·, fo1loving a requszt from the Special Co!!!mittee 
on Apartheid that the represe::1tatives of the t1.rc libcrn:t-,ion :novements associated 
with the work of the ~3peci.a1 Cormnittee on Apartheid) i.e .. ') the African National 
Congress of South Africa and the Pan-·AfricaniB-C-ConP;ress of_Azania~ be invited to 
participate in the Special Political ComMittee' g de1;a.te -'Jn "tbe :policie12 of 
apartheid of the Government of South Afri.c:a 11 in the capacity of observers 
(A/SPC/16-T and Corr.l), decided 'N"ithout vote to recornmend to the General Assembly 
that it accede to that request. In this connexion, a letter dated 
26 September 1974 (A/SPC/169) was received from the Pe:rmaneet Representative of 
South Africa stating that the South African Government vras or;posed in principle to 
the participation in the vro:ck of the 8-pecio.J ~.)olitica1 Ccnn:mittee a.s observers of 
the movern_ents :r.J.entioned in docu:cncnt A./SPC/167 and Corr, l 

1/ Official Records of 
No. 22 (A/9622 and Corr.l). 
symbol S/11522 and Corr.l. 

the General Assemb~l .. y, rr~ .. .renty--·ninth Session., Supplemeil:!_ 
Also submitt~d io the ·secu:t."ity Council under the 



A/9931 
English 
Page 4 

T. At its 2054th plenary ueeting, on 3 October, the General Assembly approved 
the recommendation of the Special Political Committee contained in its first 
report (A/9774). Accordingly, the renresentatives of the t>ro liberation movements 
participated in the discussion of the item in the capacity of observers and made 
statements as follovrs: 

(a) At the 910th neeting, on 10 October, Hr. Potlako Leballo, representative 
of the Pan-Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC); 

(b) At the 912th meeting, on 14 October, Hr. Duma Nokwe, representative of 
the African national Congress of South Africa (Al!C); 

(c) At the 908th, 909th and '?21st meetings, on 7, 8 and 28 October, 
Mr. David Sibeko (PAC); 

(d) At the 920th meeting, on 24 October, Mr. Johny Makatini (Al!C). 

8. At its 908th 
Secretary-General 

meeting, on 7 October, the Committee heard a statement by the 
of the Organization of African Unity. 

9. At its 916th meeting, .on 18 October, the Committee agreed to a request for a 
hearing addressed to the Chairman of the Committee by Mr. Dennis Brutus, President 
of the South African Non-Racial Olympic Committee, Chairman of the International 
Campaign Against Racism in Sports, and United Nations representative of the 
International Defence and Aid Fund, London. In accordance with this decision, the 
Committee heard a statement by Hr. Brutus at its 917th meeting., on 21 October. 

10. 1\t its 92lst mee~ing, on 28 October, the Committee also decided to grant 
requests for hearings addressed to the Chairman of the Committee by 
tir. Om Prakash Paliwal, Deputy Secretary-General of the Afro-Asian Peoples 
Solidarity Organization, and Mr. Romesh Chandra~ Secretary-General of the Horld 
Peace Council. Pursuant to this decision, tDe Corrmittce heard a statement by 
r'lr. Paliwal at the same meeting. At its 926th meeting, on J, '\fovember, the 
Committee hea.rd statements made on behalf of the Horld Peace CoUncil by 
l\lr. Ho:11esh Chandra, Mr~ Filifing Sissol:o~ ):~r~ '~2i1Jor PethO and Mr. Farouk Nassarany. 

II. DRAF':' RTISOLUTIONS 

ll. During its consideration of the item, the following five draft resolutions 
were submitted to the Comni ttee: 

(a) A draft resolution on the Unj_ted t~ations Trust Fund for South Africa 
(A/SPC/L. 30h); 

(b) A draft resolution on the ams embargo against South Africa (A/SPC/L.3ll); 

(c) A draft resolution concerning tf:e release oi' political prisoners 
(A/SPC/L. 312); 

I . .. 



A/9931 
English 
Page 5 

(d) A draft resolution on the prograiTLme of ;rork of the Special Cormnittee on 
Apartheid (A/SPC/1.313); 

(e) A draft resolution concerning the situation in South Africa (A/SPC/1. 314). 

A. Draft resolution A/SPC/1.304 

12. At the 926th meeting, on 4 November, the representative of Norway introduced 
the draft resolution (A/SPC/1. 304), entitled "United Nations Trust Fund for South 
Africa:;, sponsored by Australia, Austria~ Belgium, Canada~ Cyprus, Denmark~ ~inland, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Japan, 
Kuwait, Liberia, Norocco, the Ne-therlands-;-iTe-w Zealand, Nigerfa, Norvray ~ PakiStan., 
the Philippines, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sweden~ Tunisia, Turkey and Zambia, and 
announced that Bots;rana, Guyana, Italy, Halaysia, Somalia and 'I'rinidad and Tobago 
had also joined the list of sponsors. ---

13. At the 93Tth meeting, on 22 ;.lovember, the Co!YII'li t tee adopted the draft 
resolution without objection (see para. 23 below, draft resolution A). 

B. Draft resolution A/SPC/L. 311 

14. At the 938th meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Egypt introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/1.311), entitled "Anis embargo against South Africa" 
sponsored by Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, the Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Egypt, 
Jordan, Kenya, Madagascar~ ~el:alaysia~ Mali, _Mc.urif~, :Nepal, the Niger 7 I~iigeria7 
the Phii:iPPI!les-~~- Somalia, th;-S"Yrian Arab Repuhlk, Trinidad and Tobago, 
the Cnited Republic of Tanzania., the Upper Volta., Zaire a.nd Zambia. Chad, 
Demo~ratic ·YcT'l_Cn

1 
Gaboll-;-thc G;~cbia, Ghana, Guinea-:;-GuTn"ea-Bissau, GuYana-, Baiti~ 

Hungary, ii1di.a 9 -IndOi1CSia ~ Iraq_-, Jamaica, K'-:lWE:t.i t-,-Li beria.j the Libyan Arab R~pub~i~:~ 
Norocco, -I~"E;;-Zealand~ Qatar, Pe"ki-;t~;;~-1eru~-:SierraLeOOe5 Singapore, the Sudan:~ 
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, the Ukra_inian ~Soviet Socialist Repub~ the United Arab 
E;Irates, the United Ren~bliCCf:---c8;;-er~~--,----~Z'CmCE:.. a~id--rugo~lavia also joined in 
sponsoring the draft resolution. 

15. At the 940th meeting, on 28 November, ',]'" draft; resolution >ms adopted by a 
roll-call vote of 100 to 1., with 10 absterJt-io:-1:::~ (see parB.,. 23 telov.r., draft 
resolution B). 'rhe voting was as follows: ?:_/ 

In favour: Afghanistan) A1bania 1 Algeria~ Arger1ti.:J<.l.:, Australia., Austria~ 
Bahrain, Barbados, Botsuana'J Brazil, EG:l.garia') Burma 1 
Byrlorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, 
Chile, China, Colombia') Costa Rica~ Cuba, Cyprus., Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Denocratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 

?) At the se..me meeting, the representatives of Chad, the Congo" Guinea-Bissau~ 
Liberia, Oman and Saudi Arabia, vho had been absent during the voting~ stated that, 
had they been present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution. 

I . .. 



A/9931 
English 
Page 6 

Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic" 
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana" Haitij Hungary, Iceland, India., 
Indonesia~ Iran,. Iraq., Ireland~ Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kenya, Khmer Hepublic, Kuwajt, Lebanon, Lesotho~ Libyan Arab 
Republic~ Madae;asr:ar, N;alaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, 
Ho:ngolia, No rocco, I··1epal, :!\Jew Zealand, Niger~ Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan~ Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar., Romania, 
Ew-anda 1 Senegal 5 Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain~ 
Sri ~anka, Sudan, S1.vaziland, Sweden~ Syrian Arab Republic~ 
r:PhailEtnd, Togo, rl1rirli dad and Tobago, Tunisia_ rrurkey j Uganda~ 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Jepubl:ic ~ Ur..ion of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic ·of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania,. Upper Volta") Venezuela, Yemen-; 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia" 

Ap;ainst: United States of ArrLerica. 

J'\bstaining: Belgiml, Canada, ?ranee, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, 
tTapan, :11alawi:.- Netherlands} United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Norther::t Ire] and~ :.Jrue;ua.y. 

C. Draft resolution Ic/SPC/1.312 

16. At the 938th meeting, on 26 November, the represen-tative of Jamaica introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/L. 312), entitled ,:Release of political prisoners 
sponsored by Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, the Congo, Cuba, Dahomey~ Egypt, Jordan~ 
Kenya) h1adagascar, Malaysia~·- Mal{, 1·/~aurfLania ~ the Nige~Nigeria~ the ?~ilippines, 
Senegal, Somalia, the fGrrian Arab" R"E;ub.li-;:Trinidad-and ~obago) the United 
RePuhlic~of r_ranzania, the .:Upper Voita,-Zaire and Zambia.- Austialj.a" Chcla,-
.Q zechoslovakia, DemocrEt i c -y;mcn? Denmark, Finland, Gabon, the Gambia -:-c:i1ana ~ 
Greece) puir..ea, Guinea:EisSm~-:-Guy·B.na:--:·iunr;~.~ry 1 Ind.ia, Indones(a" Iraq~ Ja.."f!l.aiea, 
Kuwait, Liberia, the Libyan-A.rab RepubliC--~ ~c·r:-oc~O,Nepal, New Zea~~ Pakist.~rn~ 
-Qatar~- RO-;t~:i~ Sierra Leone") Sintsapcre, ~Su~an" Swed~D-:-Togo ,-~h:misia 5 Ugailci8~---­
the Uiu·aiilia~-so0et Socialist--""Retnlblic ~ tct€""1.Jnited Arab E~rates ~ the un-iteci 
Repu1..-.li.c··-·of Cameroon, 'r'-:~~;:en and Yur;osl8.via alSO ,iOinecl in sponsoring the draft 
res-Zh7't:.x;;:------- -----~- --··-------

17. At th~ 940th m~ct:i_ng, on 213 :1\Tovember, the dra:it rr::solution was put to the 
vote.. At t"h.e request of the Unit,ed States~ a sf::parate vote was taken on operative 
paTagrnph 2. 1Ibe voti.ng was as follo~ors: 

(a) Operative parar;raph 2 was ado!Jted by 97 votes to 1 with 7 abstentions; 

(b) I'he draft resolution as a vhole -was adopted "by a roll-call vote of 
.lll to r~one ~ 1vi th 3 abstentions {see para .. ?3 below, draft resolution C). The 
votir:g was as fol.lovrs: 3/ 

."l/ At the same meeting, the ~,7prese!l.ta.tives of Cha.d) Liberia and Oman, who 
had been absent during the voting, stated that" hnd t:hcy been present j they would 
have voted in favour of tbe draft resolution. 

I . .. 



A/9931 
English 
Page 7 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria~ 
Bahrain, Belgium, Botsvrana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma~ Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, 
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, De[,_ocratic Yemen:> D~nmark, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia~ Finland.) France, Gabon~ Gambia, 
German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, 
Greece~ Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana~ Haiti, Hungary~ Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, 
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic Kuwait, Lebanon 5 
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar 1 Malaysia, Mali, 
l~auritania, Mexico, M:ongolia? Morocco~ Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nis;er, Higeria, Norway, Pakistan 9 Peru) 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi 
Arabia., Senegal~ Slerra Leone, Singapore) Somalia~ Spain:~ Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden~ Syrian Arab Repu-olic ~ Thailand, 
To,go 

5 
1l'rinidad and Tobago, Tunisia J Turkey~ Ue;ancia 9 Ukrainian 

Soviet Socialis-e Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Upper Volta, Venezuela, YenJ.en, Yugoslavia..,. Zaire~ Zambia. 

Agains~: None. 

Abstaining: Malawi, United States of America, Uruguay. 

D. Draft resolution ~/SPC/L.313 

18. At the 938th meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Yugoslavia 
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/L. 313), entitled "Programme of 1wrk of the 
Special Committee" sponsored by Afghanistan~ Bahrain, the Congo, Cuba~ Dahomey) 
Egypt, Jordan, Kenya, I•-'ladagascar) Mali, Hauritania, l\Tiger, Senegal, the United 
RepubliCofTanzania, Upper Volta, Yur;oslavia, Zaire and Za~---Chad, 
Czechoslovakia 9 Democratic Yemen, Gabon, the G~~ the German Democratic 
Re-public"' Ghana, Guinea., Guinea-Bissau, Guyana., Hunp;ary~ Indonesia<; Iraq, Jamaica., 
Kuwait, Liberia, the Libyan Arab Repuolic, Morocco, Qatar, Romania, SierraJ:eelne, 
Singapore., the §udan~ Tunisia~ Uganda, the Ur;ited Ar~bEmirates ~ the Unite2:_ 
Republic of Cameroon and ~-~men~ also joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

19. On 26 Hovember, the f3ecretary-General, in accordance with rule 153 of the 
rules of procedure, submitted a statement (/\/SPC/1.315) to the Commjttee on the 
administrative and financial implications of the draft rcsoJ.-Ll.t~lcn. 

20. At the 940th meeting, on 28 November, the draft resolution uc'; ·~dopted by a 
roll-call vote of 106 to none, with 10 abstentions (see par8,. 23 -,:-dml, dra-ft 
resolution D). The voting was as follows: ~ 

~ At the same meeting, the representatives of Chad and Onan ') who had been 
absent during the voting~ stated that<; had tht:~y ix~cn present, they •irould have voted 
in favour of the draft resolution. 

I ... 



A/9931 
English 
Page 8 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria~ 
Bahrain, Botswana~ Brazil, Bulgaria, Burmaj Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, 
China 5 Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus~ Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yereen, Denmark, EcuadorJ Egypt, El Salvador 9 
Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, 
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, 
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq~ Ireland 9 Ivory Coast_ 
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait~ Lebanon~ 
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascarj Malaysia~ 
Mali, Hauritania, 11exico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norwayj Pakistan, Peru~ Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania~ Rwanda, Saudi Arabia 3 Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka 7 Sudan, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia~ Zaire, 
Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Belgium, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Israel, Italy, 
Malawi, Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay. 

E. Draft resolution A/SPC/1.314 

21. At the 938th meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Cuba introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/1.314), entitled "Situation in South Africa", sponsored 
by Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, the Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Egypt, Kenya, 
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, the Niger, Nige~ the Philippines, Senegal 1 
Somalia, the-sYrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, the United Republic of 
Tanzania, the Upper Volta, Zaire and Zambia. Chad, Democratic Yemen, the Gambia, 
_9-hana, Guinea, Guinea-Dissau, Guyana, -nu:ngary, Iraq, Kuwait, Liberia_ the LibYB:~ 
Arab Republic, 1'/falaysia, Morocco, Qatar, Sierra Leone, Togo, Ur,;anda, the Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, the Uni~rab Emirates, tl;eUni ted Republic of 
Cameroon~ Jemen-and Yugoslavia also joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

22. At the 940th meeting, on 28 November, the draft resolution was adopted by a 
roll~call vote of 90 to 13, with 15 abstentions (see para. 23 belm;, draft 
resolution E). The voting was as follows: :2} 

:2} At the same meeting, the representative of Oman, who had been absent during 
th.o voting, stated that, had he been present, he would have voted in favour of the 
draft resolution. 

/ ... 



A/9931 
English 
Page 9 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Barbados, 
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma., Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, 
Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic 
Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia~ Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic 
Republic"' Ghana~ Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana 5 Haiti, Hungary~ 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica 9 Jordan, Kenya) 
Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Hongolia, 
Morocco, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria~ Pakistan, Peru" Philippines'} 
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia"' Senegal, Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic 
of Cameroon, United Republic of ~'anzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, 
Yemen~ Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia .. 

Against: Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ireland, 
Israel't Italy, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Sweden, United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of 
America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Canada, Chile, Fl Salvador, Finland, Greece, 
Iceland, Japan, Lesotho, Malawi, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, 
Uruguay. 

III. RECQt.ll~NDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL COMMITTEE 

23. The Special Political Committee recommends to the General Assembly the 
adoption of the following draft resolutions: 

Policies of anartheid of the Governnent of South Africa 

A 

United Nations Trust Fund for South Africa 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Secretary-·General on the United Nations 
Trust Fund for South Africa, §! to which is annexed the report of the Committee of 
Trustees of the Trust Fund, 

§! A/9806 and Corr. l and Add.l 

I ... 



A/9931 
English 
Page 10 

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the present needs for 
humanitarian assistance within the terms of reference of the Trust Fund, 

Gravely concerned over the continued and increasing persecution of persons 
under the repressive and discriminatory legislation enforced by the Government of 
South Africa, and by the illegal administrations in Namibia and Southern Rhodesia, 
and the consequent hardships faced by numerous families, 

Considering that humanitarian assistance to persons persecuted under repressive 
and discriminatory legislation in these territories is appropriate and essential, 

Noting with appreciation the efforts of the Secretary-General and the 
Committee of Trustees to promote contributions to the Trust Fund, 

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments, organizations and 
individuals that have contributed to the United Nations Trust Fund for South Africa; 

2. Appeals to all States, organizations and individuals to make more 
generous annual contributions to the Trust Fund in order to enable it to meet the 
needs more adequately; 

3. Further appeals for generous direct contributions to the voluntary 
agencies engaged in assistance to the victims of apartheid and racial 
discrimination in South Africa, Namibia and Southern Rhodesia. 

B 

Arms embargo against South Africa 

The General Assembly, 

Deeply concerned over the grave situation in South Africa and the military· 
build-up by the South African Government, 

Anxious to avert the danger of a race conflict in southern Africa and to 
promote a just solution of the grave situation in South Africa in accordance with 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, 

Recalling its resolutions concerning the arms embargo against South Africa, in 
particular resolution 2775 (XXVI) of 29 November 1971, as well as the relevant 
resolutions of the Security Council, 

Considering that the full implementation of the arms embargo against South 
Africa is essential to prevent a further aggravation of the situation, 

Mindful of the primary responsibility of the Security Council for the 
maintenance of international peace and security~ 

Considering that mandatory measures under Chapter VII of the Charter are 
essential in order to resolve the grave situation, 

I . .. 



A/9931 
English 
Page ll 

Request~ the Security Council urgently to resume consideration of the item 
entitled "The question of race conflict in South Africa resulting from the policies 
of apartheid of the Government of South Africa" with a view to taking action under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations to ensure the complete cessation 
by all States of the supply of any arms, ammunition, military vehicles, spare 
parts thereof, and any other military equipment whatsoever to South Africa, as 
well as any mil~tary co-operation with South Africa. 

c 

Release of political prisoners 

The General Assembly, 

Deeply concerned over the grave situation in South Africa resulting from the 
policies of apartheid, 

Considerinl'( that the United Nations must intensify efforts to secure a 
peaceful change of the situation, in accordance with the principles of the Charter, 

Recognizing that the preservation of peace is impossible without the 
:U.nination of apartheid and racial discrimination, thereby enabling all 

inha!_,:L tants, irrespective of race~ colour and creed, to have the same rights, 

Reaffirming the legitimacy of the struggle of the people of South Africa 
against apartheid and racial discrimination, 

Reaffirming its conviction that the release of leaders of the oppressed people 
of South Africa and other opponents of apartheid from imprisonment and other 
restrictions is a prerequisite for a peaceful solution, 

Recalling its resolution 2505 (XXIV) of 20 November 1969 in which it 
recommended to the attention of all States and peoples, the Manifesto on Southern 
Africa, ]} adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the 
Organization of African Unity at its sixth ordinary session, 

l. Calls upon the South African Government: 

(a) To grant an unconditional amnesty to all persons imprisoned or restricted 
for their opposition to apartheid or acts arising from such opposition, as well as 
to political refugees from South Africa; 

(b) To repeal all repressive laws and regulations restricting the right of 
the people to strive for an end to racial discrimination, including the Unlawful 
Organizations Act of 1960 declaring the African National Congress of South Africa 
and the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania and other organizations unlawful; 

Tl Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-fourth Session, Annexes, 
agenda item 106, document A/TT54. 

I . .. 



A/9931 
English 
Page 12 

(c) To enable the people of South Africa as a whole to exercise their right to 
self-determination in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations; 

2. Appeals to all States and organizations to provide appropriate political, 
moral and material assistance to the oppressed people of South Africa, and their 
liberation movements, in their struggle for the eradication of apartheid and the 
establishment of a society based on equal rights for all inhabitants irrespective 
of race, colour or creed; 

3. Appeals to all States and organizations to exert all their influence to 
prol'lote the early realization of the objectives enumerated in paragraph l above. 

D 

Programme of work of the Special Committee on Apartheid 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee on Apartheid, §_/ 

Recalling its resolutions on the policies of apartheid of the Government of 
South.Africa and the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 

Considering that the United Nations must intensify efforts towards concerted 
action by Governments, intergovernmental and non--governmental organizations and 
other bodies for the eradicatjon. of apartheid_, 

Convinced of the need to expand the activities of the United Nations and its 
specialized agencies in acquainting wor1d public opinion with the evils of 
apartheid and the efforts to eradicate it, and thereby to counter the propaganda 
of the South African regime and its supporters, 

l. Commends the Special Committee on Apartheid for its work in the discharge 
of its responsibilities to promote the international campaign against apartheid; 

2~ Appeals to all Governments and organizations to take steps to intensify 
concerted international action against apartheid~ in accordance with the United 
Nations resolutions and. the Programme for the Decad.e for Action to Combat Racism 
and Racial Discrimination, and cor!lrlends the t'eports of the Special Committee for 
consideration and appropriate action by tbem; 

3. Requests~ the Special Committee on Apartheid to give special attention in 
1975 to encouraging and promoting: 

§__/ .Toid., TT,renty-ninth Sessio:..1, Supplement No~ 22 (A/9622 and Corr~l)~ 
Also submitted to the Security Council under i."t;e--;;y;::b~~l S/11522 and Corr .1, A/9780, 
A/9781, A/9603, A/9806 and Corr. l and Add.l. 

I .. . 



A/9931 
English 
Page 13 

(a) Greater assistance to the South African liberation movements; 

(b) Concerted action by specialized agencies and other intergovernmental 
organizations in accordance with the recomT'iendations in its reports; 

(c) Public action in support of the resolutions of the United Nations on this 
question; 

4. Requests the Special CoiTL'llittee to continue its efforts to encourage and 
promote co-ordinated international car1paie;ns for: 

(a) A total embargo on the supply of arms to South Afr~ca and the cessation 
of any form of military co-operation vrith South Africa; 

(b) Ending of collaboration by banks, national and transnational companies 
with the South African regime and companies registered in South Africa; 

(c) Cessation of emigration to South Africa; 

(d) Release of political prisoners in South Africa, as well as those subjected 
to restrictions for their opposition to ?par~~~i-~; 

(e) Ending of all cultural, educational, scientific, sporting and other 
contacts with the racist r8gim.e and with organizations or institutions in South 
Africa which practise apartheid; 

5. Authorizes the Special Committee: 

(a) To send missions to Governments of l'lember States and to the headquarters 
of specialized agenciee and other intergovernmental and non-governmental 
organizations, as required, for consultations to promote the international campaign 
against apartheid; 

(b) To hold consultations with the Preparatory Committee of the International 
Conference of '~rade Unions against Apartheic!_; 

(c) To participate in conferences con~srned ,,rith ap_ar~heid; 

(d) To invite the representatives of South African liberation movements 
recognized by the Organizatj_on of African Un.i.ty for consultations, -whenever 
necessary. 

6. Requests the Special Committee, in consu.ltation w·i th the Organization of 
African Unity, to organize a seminar in 1975 to consider the present situation 
in South Africa and the means for promoting p-ublic action against apartheid, as 
proposed in paragraph 236 of its report; 

7. Requests the Unit on Apartheid and t,he Office of Public Information of the 
Secretariat, in co--operation "ri th ·-:-the -specialized agencies and other intergovernmental 

/ . .. 



A/9931 
English 
Page 14 

and non-governmental organizations, to expand dissemination of information against 
apartheid, in consultation with the Special Committee; 

8. Recommends that sufficient funds be allocated for the expansion of the 
activities of the Unit on Apartheid; 

9- Further invites all Governments to take steps to discourage and to counter 
attempts by the South African regime to disseminate propaganda in their countries; 

10. Requests all Governments, specialized agencies and other intergovernmental 
organizations to lend their co-operation to the Special Committee in the 
implementation ~f the present resolution; 

11. Decides that the name of the Special Committee on Apartheid shall 
henceforth be "Special Committee against Apartheid"; 

12. Decides to expand the membership of the Special Committee and to request 
the President of the General Assembly, in consultation with the regional groups, 
to appoint additional members, taking into account the principle of equitable 
geographical representation. 

E 

Situation in South Africa 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the reports of the Special Committee on Apartheid, 21 

Recalling its resolutions on the policies of apartheid of the Government of 
South Africa, and its decisions at the current session concerning the representation 
of South Africa, 

Deeply concerned over the grave situation in South Africa which constitutes a 
threat to international peace and security, 

Noting that the continued collaboration by certain States and by economic and 
other interests with the South African regime impedes efforts for the eradication 
of apartheid, 

Noting with concern that three Powers, permanent members of the Security 
Council, namely, France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
and the United States of America, by the use of the veto, prevented the Security 
Council from taking effe'ctive action against the South African apartheid regime, 

21 Ibid. 

/ ... 



A/9931 
English 
Page 15 

Further noting that the actions of some States in strengthening political, 
economic, military and other relations with the South African regime are in 
flagrant violation of the resolutions of the United Nations, 

Recalling the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of 
the Crime of Apartheid, 10/ 

Reaffirming that the policies and practices of apartheid constitute a crime 
against humanity, 

Condemning the activities of national and transnational corporations, financial 
institutions and other interests which enhance apartheid and encourage the 
exploitation of African workers, 

Denouncing the manoeuvres of the South African regime to perpetuate apartheid 
by establishing "bantustans", 

l. Strongly condemns the South African regime for its policies and practices 
of apartheid which are a crime against humanity; 

2. Reaffirms that the struggle of the oppressed people of South Africa by 
all available means for the total eradication of apartheid is legitimate and 
deserves the support of the international community; 

3. Strongly condemns the South African regime for its persistent and 
flagrant violations of principles contained in the Charter of the United Nations and 
its continued defiance of the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council; 

4. Condemns the actions of those States and foreign economic interests which 
continue to c~llaborate with the South African regime, in contravention of the 
resolutions of the General Assembly, and thereby encourage it to persist in its 
inhuman policies; 

• 
5. Condemns the strengthening of political, economic, military and other 

relations between Israel and South Africa; 

6. Calls upon the Government of France to cease all military collaboration 
with South Africa and to stop the supply of arms and other military equipment to 
the South African regime; 

7. Calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland to cease all military collaboration with the South African regime 
and for that purpose to abrogate the "Simons town Agreement"; 

8. Recommends that the South African regime should be totally excluded from 
participation in all international organizations and conferences under the auspices 
of the United Nations so long as it continues to practise apartheid and fails to 
abide by United Nations resolutions concerning Namibia and Southern Rhodesia; 

10/ General Assembly resolution 3068 (XXVIII). / ... 



A/9931 
English 
Pa,ge 16 

9. Requests all Governments: 

(a) To sign and ratify the International Convention on the Suppression and 
Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid; 

(b) To prohibit South African imroigration offices from operating 1n their 
territories; 

(c) To prohibit all cultural, educational, scientific, sporting and other 
contacts with the racist regime and with organizations or institutions in 
South Africa which practise apartheid; 

(d) To end any exchanges of military, naval or air attaches with South 
Africa; 

(e) To prohibit visits of any military personnel or officials of the 
Department of Defence and related agencies from South Africa; 

(f) To cease all co--operation with South Africa in nuclear and other modern 
technological research, particularly research with military applications; 

10. Condemns the policy of ''bantustans" imposed by the South African regime 
and calls upon all Governments and organizations not to accord any form of 
recognition to any institution or authority created thereby; 

11. Requests the Secretary-General and the specialized agencies to take 
steps, as appropriate, to deny all facilities to, and co-operation with, 
companies and organizations which assist the South African rE!gime or South African 
companies with loans, technical assistance or other means; 

12. Requests the Special Corr~ittee to keep under review the collaboration 
of States and economic and other interests with South Africa, as well

0
as all 

aspects of the implementation of the United Nations resolutions on apartheid in 
South Africa, with a view to facilitating and promoting universal application of 
economic and other sanctions against South Africa~~ .. 

13. Condemns all those Governments and organizations which have provided 
humanitarian, educational, political and other assistance to the oppressed people 
of South Africa and their liberation movements in their struggle for freedom and 
equality, and appeals to all Governments and organizations to provide greater 
asBistance in that legitimate struggle. 




