
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda i tern 35 

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT 

Report of the F:i.rst Committee 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9907 
6 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Rapporteur: Mr. Ant6nio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

l. The item entitled "General a!ld complete disarmament: report of the Conference 
of the Committee on Disarmament" was included by the Secretary~General in the 
provisional agenda of the twenty-ninth session on the basis of General Assembly 
resolutions 3184 A to C (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973. 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the Gene~al Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the Gene1·al Committee, decided to in~lude the item in the 
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee for consideration and report. 

3. At its 1987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided to have 
a combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely: 

Item 24: Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of 
the Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the 
funds thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries. 

Item 27: Napalm and other incendiary weapons and all aspects of their 
possible use. 

Item 28: Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons. 

Item 29: Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban. 

Item 30: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3079 (XXVIII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

74-34658 / •.. 



A/9907 
English 
Page 2 

Item 31: Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a 
Zone of Peace. 

Item 34: World Disarmament Conference. 

Item 35: General and complete disarmament. 

Item 100: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) concerning 
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the 
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America 
(Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 101: Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East. 

Item 103: Prohibition of action to influence the environment and climate for 
military and other purposes incompatible with the maintenance of 
international security, human well-being and health. 

Item 107: Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia. 

4. The general debate on these items took place at the 1998th to 2016th meetings, 
from 21 October to 11 November. 

5. The First Committee had before it, in connexion with agenda item 35, the 
following documents: 

(a) Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (A/9708-DC/237); 

(b) Letter dated 8 August 1974 from the representatives of the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America to the United Nations 
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9698). 

6. On ll November, Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Canada, Czechoslovakia, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, Hungary, India, Italy, Jauan, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
the Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Sweden, the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the 
United States of America and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/1.684). 
The draft resolution was introduced by Mexico at the 2020th meeting, on 15 November. 

7. On ll November, Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Mexico, Morocco, 
Nigeria, Sweden and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.688), which 
subsequently was also sponsored by Nepal. The draft resolution was introduced by 
Mexico at the 202lst meeting, on 18 November. 

8. On 12 November, Argentina, India, Liberia, Nigeria, Romania, Sweden and Zaire 
submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.687), which was subsequently also sponsored 
by Brazil, Ghana, Mexico, Senegal and Yugoslavia. The draft resolution was 
introduced by Nigeria at the 2018th meeting, on 13 November. 

I ... 



A/9907 
English 
Page 3 

9. On 12 November, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Ghana, Japan, the Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Sweden and Venezuela submitted a draft resolution 
(A/C.l/1.690 and Corr.l (Spanish only)), which subsequently was also sponsored by 
Austria, Costa Rica, Finland, Germany (Federal Republic of) and Ireland. The draft 
resolution was introduced by the Netherlands at the 2018th meeting, on 13 November. 
(The text of the draft resolution is the same as that of draft resolution D in 
paragraph 22 below, without the latter's eleventh preambular paragraph and 
operative paragraph 5. ) 

10. On 18 November, Mexico introduced amendments (A/C.l/1.693) to draft resolution 
A/C.l/1.690, and also submitted a working paper (A/C.l/1052) relating to the 
amendments, On 20 November, Mexico introduced a revised version of the amendments 
(A/C.l/1.693/Rev.l), reading as follows: 

"1. Add the following after the tenth preambular paragraph: 

"'Recalling the sc;atements made at the 1577th meeting of the 
First Committee, held on 31 May 1968, by the representatives of the 
United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
concerning the provisions of article V of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons which relate to the conclusion 
of a special international agreement on nuclear explosions for 
peaceful purposes (A/C.l/1052),'. 

"2. Add the following new operative paragraph 5 and renumber the following 
paragraph accordingly: 

"'5~ Invites, in this connexion, the United States of America and 
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to provide the review conference 
of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons with 
information concerning such steps as they have taken since the entry into 
force of the Treaty, or intend to take, for the conclusion of the special 
basic international agreement on nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes 
which is envisaged in article V of the Treaty;'." 

11. On 18 November, Botswana, Burundi, the Central African Republic, Chad, 
the Congo, Dahomey, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, the Ivory Coast, 
Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritius, the Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra 
Leone, Swaziland, Togo, the Upper Volta, and Zaire submitted a draft resolution 
(A/C.l/1.694), which subsequently was also sponsored by the Gambia and the United 
Republic of Cameroon. The draft resolution was introduced by Nigeria at the 
2025th meeting, on 20 November. 

12. On 21 November, Finland submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/1.701 and Corr.l), 
which subsequently was also sponsored by Gabon. The draft resolution was introduced 
by Finland at the 2026th meeting, on 21 November. 

13. On 21 November, Pakistan submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/1.702), which it 
introduced at the 2026th meeting, on 21 November. 

I ... 



A/9907 
English 
Page 4 

14. At the 2018th meeting, on 13 November, the Chairman recalled that at its 
1716th meeting, on 9 December 1969, the First Committee had reached an understanding 
approved by the General Assembly at its 1836th meeting, on 16 December 1969, that 
the volume prepared by the Secretariat, entitled The United Nations and 
Disarmament, 1945 1965, 1/ should be brought up to date every five years. Since 
that had last been done in 1970., the Committee would now have to reach a decision 
on bringing the volume up to date from 1970 to 1975. In that connexion, the 
Chairman read a statement', for consideration by the delegations, on the estimated 
costs of such a procedure by two methods. At the 2028th meeting, on 22 November, 
the Chairman announced that, as a result of informal consultations it was 
understood that the First Committee would consider that the bringing up to date of 
the publication entitled The United Nations and Disarmament for the years 1970 to 
1975 should be carried out by the Secretary-General's issuing a supplement of some 
200 pages, printed in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish, which 
would cover the period from 1970 to 1975. The Chairman added that the Secretary-
General had informed him that the total cost for printing and external contractual 
translation would be $US 56,000 for the supplement in the six languages. The 
Committee thereupon decided by consensus that that should be done and that its 
recommendation would be submitted to the General Assembly for approval (see 
para. 23 below). 

15. At the 2019th meeting, on 14 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.687 was adopted 
without a vote (see para. 22 below, draft resolution A). 

16. At the 2020th meeting, on 15 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.684 was adopted 
without a vote (see para. 22 below, draft resolution B). 

17. At the 2022nd meeting, on 18 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.688 was adopted 
by 88 votes to 1, with 21 abstentions (see para. 22 below, draft resolution C). 

18. At the 2025th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee proceeded to a vote on 
draft resolution A/C.l/L.690 and the revised amendments contained in document 
A/C.l/L.693/Rev.l, as follows: 

(a) The first amendment contained in A/C.l/L.693/Rev.l (see para. 10 above) 
was adopted by a recorded vote of 89 to 1, with 10 abstentions. The voting was 
as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Botswana, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa 
Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, 
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland~ 
Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, 

1/ United Nations publication, Sales No.: E.67.I.8. 
/ ... 



.A/9907 
English 
Page 5 

Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon 
Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Against: India. 

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Bhutan, Brazil, Cuba, France, Spain, United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic 
of Tanzania, United States of America. 

(b) The second amendment contained in A/C.l/L.693/Rev.l (see para. 10 above) 
was adopted by a recorded vote of 81 to 1, with 19 abstentions. The voting was as 
follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Botswana, Burma, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, 
Costa Rica, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, Germany 
(Federal Republic of), Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, 
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, 
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. 

Against: India. 

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German 
Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Spain, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United 
States of America, Zambia. 

(c) A separate vote was then taken on the seventh preambular paragraph of 
draft resolution A/C.l/L.690 which was adopted by a recorded vote of 74 to 2, with 
25 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, 
Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, 

I ... 



A/9907 
English 
Page 6 

Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Laos, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United States 
of America, Upper Volta, Venezuela. 

Against: France, India. 

Abstaining: Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, 
Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Indonesia, 
Iraq, Kuwait, Mauritius, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

(d) A separate vote was then taken on the ninth preambular paragraph of draft 
resolution A/C.l/L.690 which was adopted by a recorded vote of 89 to 1, with 
10 abstentions. The voting was as f;llows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burma, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, German 
Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, Greece, 
Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, Libyan 
Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, l~auritania, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Cameroon, United States of America, Upper 
Volta, Venezuela, Yemen. 

India. 

Abstaining: Argentina, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Cuba, France, Romania, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

/ ... 



A/9907 
English 
Page 7 

(e) A separate vote was then taken on the tenth preambular paragraph of draft 
resolution A/C.l/L.690 which was adopted by a recorded vote of 91 to l, with 
ll abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burma, 
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, 
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, 
German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, 
Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, Libyan 
Arab Republic, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, 
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United States of America, 
Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen. 

India. 

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Cuba, France, 
Indonesia, United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

(f) Finally, draft resolution A/C.l/L.690, as amended, was adopted by a 
recorded vote of 91 to 3, with ll abstentions (see para. 22 below, draft 
resolution D). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burma, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, 
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, German Democratic 
Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, 
Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, 
Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, Libyan Arab 
Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria~ Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United States 
of America, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen. 

/ ... 

• 



A/9907 
English 
Page 8 

Against: Albania, China, India. 

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Burundi, Cuba, 
France, United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

19. At the 2026th meeting, on 21 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.694 was 
adopted by 108 votes to none, with 3 abstentions (see para. 22 below, draft 
resolution E) • 

20. At the 2027th meeting, on 22 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.70l and Corr.l 
was adopted by a recorded vote of 114 to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 22 
below, draft resolution F). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa 
Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Germany 
(Federal Republic of), Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, 
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, 
Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Laos, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, 
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic 
of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of 
America, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Cuba, France, 

21. At the 2028th meeting, on 22 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.702 was adopted 
without a vote (see para. 22 below, draft resolution G). 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

22. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

I ... 

• 



General and complete disarmament 

A • 

The General Assembly, 

A/9907 
English 
Page 9 

Recalling its resolution 2602 E (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it 
declared the decade of the 1970s as a Disarmament Decade, 

Having received the reports of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament 
since 1970 relating to the question of general and complete disarmament under 
effective international control, 

Mindful of the grave dangers involved in the continuing development of new 
nuclear weapons through a spiralling nuclear arms race and proliferation of nuclear 
weapons, 

Reaffirming its conviction that the diversion of enormous resources and energy, 
human and material from peaceful economic and social pursuits to an unproductive 
and wasteful arms race, particularly in the nuclear arms race, impairs the 
security and the economic and social well-being of both the developed and 
developing countries, 

Recalling the link between the Disarmament Decade and the Second United Nations 
Development Decade, 

1. Reaffirms the purposes and objectives of the Disarmament Decade; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General and Governments to report to the General 
Assembly at its thirtieth session on the action and steps which they have taken so 
far to publicize the Disarmament Decade in order to acquaint the general public 
with its purposes and objectives; 

3. Invites Member States to report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth 
session, through the Secretary-General, on the measures and policies they have 
adopted to achieve the purposes and objectives of the Disarmament Decade; 

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session an 
item entitled "Mid-term review of the Disarmament Decade". 

B 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 1660 (XVI) of 28 November 1961 and 1722 (XVI) of 
20 December 1961 on the composition of a Disarmament Committee of 18 members, 

I ... 



A/9907 
English 
Page 10 

Recalling further its resolution 2602 B (XXIV) of 16 December 1969 by which 
it endorsed the agreement that had been reached on the title of the Committee as 
"Conference of the Committee on Disarmament 11 and on an enlarged composition of the 
following 26 members: Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Canada, Czechoslovakia, 
Ethiopia, France, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Sweden, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America and Yugoslavia, 

Noting that the German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Iran, Peru and Zaire have expressed an interest in becoming members of the 
Conference of the Committee on Disarmament and that the present members of the 
Committee have agreed to invite them to become members beginning 1 January 1975, as 
stated in the report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, Sf 

Reaffirming that all States have a deep interest in disarmament negotiations, 

1. Endorses the agreement that has been reached to the effect that the 
composition of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament will be increased as 
from 1 January 1975 with the following members: German Democratic Republic, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Iran, Peru and Zaire; 

2. Welcomes the five new members of the Conference of the Committee on 
Disarmament; 

3. Expresses its conviction that, to effect any change in the composition 
of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament specified in the present 
resolution, the procedure followed on this occasion should be observed; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide the necessary 
assistance and services to the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament. 

c 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 2602 A (XXIV) of 16 December 1969 relating to the 
initiation of bilateral negotiations between the Governments of the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the limitation of offensive 
and defensive strategic nuclear-weapons systems, 

Reaffirming its resolutions 2932 B (XXVII) of 29 November 1972 and 
3184 A and C (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973, 

Sf A/9708-DC/237. 

I ... 



A/9907 
English 
Page ll 

Recalling that the first of the Basic Principles of Negotiations on the 
Further Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms 3/ approved by the above~mentioned 
Governments on 21 June 1973 provided that over the course of 1974 the two sides 
would make serious efforts to work out the provisions of the permanent agreement on 
more complete measures on the limitation of strategic offensive arms with the 
objective of sir,ping it in 1974, 

Further recalling that in the same Principle it was also contemplated to agree 
on the subsequent reduction of such arms, 

Bearing in mind that unfortunateiy those efforts have yet to yield the desired 
results, 

l. Notes that the Secretary of State of the United States of America, in his 
address to the General Assembly on 23 September 1974, stated, inter alia: 

"The world has dealt with nuclear weapons as if restraint were 
automatic. Their very awesomeness has chained those weapons for almost 
three decades; their sophistication and expense have helped to keen 
constant for a decade the number of States which possess them. Now, as 
was quite foreseeable, political inhibitions are in danger of crumbling. 
Nuclear catastrophe looms more plausible, whether through design or 
miscalculation; accident, theft or blackmail"; J:j 

2. Notes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, in his address to the General Assembly on 24 September 1974, 
stated, inter alia: 

"Stable and lasting peace is incompatible with the arms race. Tl!ey are 
antipodes. One cannot seriously think of eliminating the threat of war, 
while at the same time increasing military budgets and endlessly building 
up armaments •.• 

"The supreme interests not only of the peoples of the Soviet Union and 
the United States, but also of the peoples of ~he whole world require that 
the Soviet Union and the United States, possessing the colossal might of 
nuclear weapons, should make every effort to achieve appropriate understandings 
and agreements"; '2J 

3. Fully shares the deep concern reflected in those statements with regard to 
the gravity of the situation created by existing nuclear arsenals and the continued 
nuclear arms race; 

4. Urges the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of 
America to broaden the scope and accelerate the pace of their strategic arms 

l/ A/9293, annex II. 
J:} See A/PV.2238. 
2/ See A/PV.2240. 

I . .. 



A/9907 
English 
Page 12 

limitation talks, and stresses once again the necessity and urgency of reaching 
agreement on important qualitative limitations and substantial reductions of their 
strategic nuclear-weapon systems as a positive step towards nuclear disarmament; 

5. Invites the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and 
the United States of America to keep the General Assembly informed in good time 
of the results of their negotiations. 

D 
• 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions on the urgent need for prevention of nuclear 
proliferation, 

Recalling also its resolution 2829 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, 

Recognizing that the acceleration of the nuclear arms race and the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons endangers the security of all States, 

Convinced that recent international developments have underlined the urgent 
necessity for all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States, to take effective 
measures to reverse the momentum of the nuclear arms race and to prevent further 
proliferation of nuclear weapons, 

Further convinced that the achievement of these goals would be advanced by an 
effective comprehensive test ban, 

Bearing in mind that it has not yet proven possible to differentiate. between 
the technology for nuclear weapons and that for nuclear explosive devices for 
peaceful purposes, 

Noting with concern that, in the course of this year, six States have engaged 
in nuclear testing, 

Recognizing that even those States which renounce the possession of nuclear 
weapons may wish to be able to enjoy any benefits which may materialize from nuclear 
explosions for peaceful purposes, 

Noting with great concern that, as a result of the wider dissemination of 
nuclear technology and nuclear materials, the possible diversion of nuclear energy 
from peaceful to military uses would present a serious danger for world peace and 
security~ 

Considering therefore that the planning and conducting of peaceful nuclear 
explosions should be carried out under agreed and non-discriminatory international 
arrang~ments, such as those envisaged in the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons, 6/ which are designed to help prevent the proliferation of nuclear 
explosive devices-and the intensification of the nuclear arms race, 

~/General Assembly resolution 2373 (XXII), annex. I . .. 



A/9907 
English 
Page 13 

Recalling the statE~ents made at the 1577th meeting of the First Committee, 
held on 31 May 1968, by the representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics and the United States of America. concerning the provisions of article V 
of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons which relate to the 
conclusion of a special international agreement on nuclear explosions for peaceful 
purposes, ]} 

Noting that the review conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons will be held in Geneva in May 1975, 

Noting further that, in the introduction to his report on the work of the 
Organization dated 30 August 1974, 8/ the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
pointed out the possible danger of peaceful nuclear explosions leading to nuclear 
weapons proliferation and suggested that the question of peaceful nuclear 
explosions in all its aspects should now be a subject for international 
consideration, 

1. Appeals to all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States, to exert 
concerted efforts iD all the appropriate international forums with a view to 
working out promptly effective measures for the cessation of the nuclear arms race 
and for the prevention of the further proliferation of nuclear weapons; 

2. Requests t;1e International Atomic Energy Agency to continue its studies 
on the peaceful applications of nuclear explosions, their utility and feasibility, 
including legal, health and safety aspects, and to report on these questions to 
the General Assembly at its thirtieth session; 

3. Calls upon the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, in submitting 
its report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session on the elaboration of 
a treaty designed to a.chieve a comprehensive test ban, to include a section on its 
consideration of the arms control implications of peaceful nuclear explosions and, 
in so doing, to take account of the views of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency as requested in paragraph 2 above; 

4. Expresses the hope that the review conference of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to be held in Geneva in May 1975, will also 
give consideration to the role of peaceful nuclear explosions as provided for in 
that Treaty and will inform the General Assembly at its thirtieth session of the 
results of its deliberations; 

5. Invites, in this connexion, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and 
the United States of America to provide the review conference of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons with information concerning such steps as they 
have taken since the entry into force of the Treaty, or intend to take, for the 
conclusion of the special basic international agreement on nuclear explosions for 
peaceful purposes which is envisaged in article V of the Treaty; 

]} See A/C.l/1052. 

8/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. 1 A (A/9601/Add.l). 

I . .. 



A/9907 
English 
Page 14 

6. Invites the Secretary-General, should he deem it appropriate, to submit 
further comments on this matter, taking into account the reports referred to in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 above. 

E 

The General Assembly, 

Determined to promote an agreement on general and complete disarmament, in 
pursuance of the objectives of the United Nations, which would put an end to the 
armaments race and eliminate the incentive to the production, stockpiling and 
testing of all kinds of weapons, particularly nuclear weapons, 

Convinced that the proliferation of nuclear weapons would seriously enhance 
the danger of nuclear war, 

Believing that militarily denuclearized zones covering the territories of 
Member States would arrest the proliferation of nuclear weapons and contribute 
to the maintenance of peace and security in their respective regions and the 
world, 

Affirming the inalienable right of all the peoples of the United Nations to 
develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, 

Recalling its resolutions 1652 (XVI) of 24 November 1961 and 2033 (XX) of 
3 December 1965, which called upon all States to consider and respect the continent 
of Africa, including the continental African States, Madagascar and other islands 
surrounding Africa, as a nuclear-free zone, 

Considering that the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the 
Organization of African Unity, at its first regular session, held at Cairo from 
17 to 21 July 1964, issued a solemn declaration on the denuclearization of 
Africa, 21 in which the Heads of State and Government announced their readiness to 
undertake, in an international treaty to be concluded under the auspices of the 
United Nations, not to manufacture or acquire control of nuclear weapons, 

~!oting that the aforementioned declaration of the African Heads of State and 
Government on the denuclearization of the continent of Africa was endorsed by the 
Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries in the Declaration issued on 
10 October 1964, 10/ at the close of their second conference, held at Cairo, 

1. Reaffirms its call upon all States to consider and respect the continent 
of Africa as a nuclear-free zone; 

21 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twentieth Session, Annexes, 
agenda item 105, document A/5975. 

10/ See A/5763. 

I .... 



A/9907 
English 
Page 15 

2. Reiterates its call upon all States to respect and abide by the 
declaration of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization 
of African Unity on the denuclearization of Africa; 

3. Reiterates further its call upon all States to refrain from testing, 
manufacturing, deploying, transporting, storing, using or threatening to use 
nuclear weapons· on the African continent; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to render all necessary assistance to the 
Organization of African Unity tm<ards the realization of the aims and objectives 
of this resolution; 

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session an 
item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa". 

F 

The General Assembly, 

Conscious of the need to make every effort towards achieving a cessation uf 
the nuclear arms race, nuclear disarmament and general and complete disarmament 
under strict and effective international control, 

Recognizing, in pursuance of these ends, the urgent need to prevent the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world, 

Recalling the different efforts and achievements undertaken on a regional 
level with a view to the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones, 

Recalling, in particular, the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons 
in Latin Americe (Treaty of Tlatelolco), 11/ 

Considering that further efforts concerning nuclear-weapon-free zones would 
be enhanced by a comprehensive study of the question in all of its aspects, 

1. Decides to undertake a comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-
weapon-free zones in all of its aspects; 

2. Requests that the study be carried out by an ad hoc group of qualified 
governmental experts under the auspices of the Conference of the Committee on 
Disarmament; 

3. Calls upon interested Governments and international organizations 
concerned to extend such assistanc~ as may be required from them for the carrying 
out of the study; 

11/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-second Session, 
Annexes, agenda item 91, document A/C.l/946. 

I .. . 



A/9907 
English 
Page 16 

4. Re~uests the Secretary-General to provide such services and to give such 
assistance for the study as may be required; 

5. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to transmit the 
comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all of its 
aspects in a special report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session; 

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session an 
item entitled "Comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in 
all of its aspects". 

G 

The General Assembly, 

Recognizing that the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of 
non-nuclear-weapon States need to be safeguarded against the use or threat of use 
of nuclear weapons, 

Considering that it is imperative for the international community to devise 
effective measures to ensure the security of non-~uclear-weapon States, 

Noting that the non-nuclear-weapon States have called for assurances from 
nuclear-weapon Po>,ers that they will not use or threaten the use of nuclear 
weapons against them, 

Bearing in mind the need to allay the legitimate concern of the States of the 
world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples, 

Also bearing in mind that the effort to strengthen world security must be 
pursued unceasingly in all appropriate bodies and forums, 

Believing it necessary to consider ways to strengthen assurances against 
nuclear attack or threat and thus give greater confidence to the non-nuclear-
>reapon States, 

1. Declares its firm support for the independence, territorial integrity and 
sovereignty of non-nuclear-weapon States; 

2. Recommends to Member States to consider in all appropriate forums, 
without loss of time, the question of strengthening the security of non-nuclear-
weapon States. 

I ... 



A/9907 
English 
Page 17 

23. The First Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft decision: 

The General Assembly, in accordance with a decision taken at its 
l836th plenary meeting, on 16 December 1969, 12/ that the publication entitled 
The United Nations and Disarmament, l945-l965-r3/ should be brought up to 
date every five years, requests the Secretaria~to prepare and issue in 1975 
a supplement, of approximately 200 pages, to the publication entitled 
The United Nations and Disarmament, 1945-1970 covering developments in the 
disarmament field during the five-year period from 1970 to 1975 and printed 
in the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish languages. • 

12/ See A/PV.l836. 

13/ United Nations publication, Sales No.: E.67 .r.B. 




