
















































UNITED NATIONS 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9940 
GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 11 December 1974 

ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: FRENCH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 67 

QUESTION OF SOUTHERN RHODESIA 

Report of the Fourth Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Arnaldo H. S. ARAUJO (Guinea-Bissau) 

1. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee (A/9750), decided to include in the 
agenda of its twenty-ninth session an item entitled: 

"Question of Southern Rhodesia: report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples". 

At its 2237th plenary meeting, on the same day, the Assembly decided to allocate 
the item to the Fourth Committee for consideration and report. 

2. The Fourth Committee considered the question at its 2092nd to 2100th, 2116th, 
2117th, 212lst and 2123rd meetings, between 15 October and 29 November 1974. 

3. At the 2092nd meeting, on 15 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Coionial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter VIII 
of the report of that Committee (A/96231Add.2), relating to the item. 

4. In connexion with its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee had 
before it a letter dated 18 October 1974 from the Permanent Representative of 
Tunisia to the United Nations, addressed to its Chairman (A/C.4/777). 

5. During the consideration of the item, the following representatives of national 
liberation movements participated in an observer capacity in the proceedings of the 
Fourth Committee, in accordance with the related decision taken by the General 
Assembly at its 2254th plenary meeting, on 3 October, on the recommendation of the 
Fourth Committee (A/9765): 

Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU) 
Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU) 

74-35332 

Mr. T. George Silundika 
Mr. Noel Mukono 

I . .. 



A/9940 
English 
Page 2 

6. At the 2093rd meeting, on 16 October, Mr. Silundika and Mr. Mukono made 
statements. At the 2094th meeting, on 21 October, Mr. Mukono made another 
statement. At the 2100th meeting, on 29 October, the two representatives made 
further statements. 

7. The Fourth Committee granted the following requests for hearing in connexion 
with its consideration of the item: 

Petitioner 

The Reverend G. Michael Scott, International 
League for the Rights of Man (A/C.4/774) 

The Reverend Canaan Banana, African National 
Council of Zimbabwe (A/C.4/776) 

Meeting at which request 
for hearing was granted 

2084th 

2088th 

8. At the 2092nd meeting, on 15 October, statements were made by the 
Reverend Banana and the Reverend Scott. 

9. The general debate on the item took place at the 2092nd to 2100th meetings, 
between 15 and 29 October. 

10. At the 2116th meeting, on 22 November, the Chairman drew the attention of 
members to two draft resolutions (A/C.4/L.l067 and Corr.l and A/C.4/L.l068 and 
Cm·r.l) which had been circulated. 

11, At the 2117th meeting, on 25 November, the representatives of Iraq and the 
United Republic of Tanzania introduced the draft resolutions referred to in 
paragraph 10 above, which were finally sponsored by the following Member States: 

(a) A/C.4/L,l067 and Corr.l: 

Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, 
Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gambia, German 
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, 
·Iraq~ Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, 
Mauritania, Mongolia, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Romania~ Rwanda, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Republic of 
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire 
and Zambia. 

(b) A/C.4/L.l068 and Corr,l: 

Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, 
Chad, Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, 
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana~ 
Hungary, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Madagascar~ Mali, 
Mauritania, Mongolia, Nepal'lo Niger, Romania, ~wanda., Senegal, Sierra Leone, 

I ... 



A/9940 
English 
Page 3 

Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Republic of Cameroon, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zambia. 

12. At its 212lst meeting, on 28 November, the Fourth Committee voted on the two 
draft resolutions as follows: 

(a) Draft resolution A/C.4/L.l067 and Corr.l was adopted by a recorded vote 
of 97 to none, with 18 abstentions (see para. 13 below, draft resolution I). The 
voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, 
Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, 
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Jreece, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, IvOry Coast, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, 
Hexico, Mongolia, Morocco, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, 
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, 
Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, 
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia~ 

None. 

Abstentions: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Malawi, 
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay. 

(b) 
of 99 to 
vote was 

Draft resolution A/C.4/L.l068 
none, with 17 abstentions (see 
as follows: 

and Corr.J. was adopted by a recorded vote 
para. 13 below, draft resolution II). The 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, 
Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, ~cuador, Egypt, Fiji, 
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana; Honduras, Hungary, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland~ Ivory Coast, Jamaica, 
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, 

I . .. 



A/9940 
English 
Page 4 

Against: 

Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, 
Mauritania, ~exico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Spain, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

None. 

Abstentions: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany 
(Federal Republic of), Iceland, Israel, Italy, Malawi, Norway, 
Portugal, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay. 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE 

13. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Question of Southern Rhodesia 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the question of Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), 

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, !( 

Having heard the statements of the representatives of the Zimbabwe African 
People's Union and the Zimbabwe African National Union, 2/ who participated in an 
observer capacity in the Fourth Committee's consideration of the item, 

Having heard the statements of petitioners, 2/ 

!( A/9623 (parts I-III), chap. I, A/9623 (parts V-VII), chaps. IV to VI and 
A/9623/Add.2, chap. VIII. 

~ A/C.4/SR.2093, 2094 and 2100. 

]/ A/C.4/SR.2092. 

I ... 



A/9940 
English 
Page 5 

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 
and its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 OctJber 1970, containing the programme of action 
for the full implementation of the Declaration, as well as all other resolutions 
relating to the question adopted by the General Assembly, the Security Council and 
the Special Committee, 

Strongly deploring the failure of the Government of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland to dischar~ its primary responsibility as the 
administering Power and, in conformity with the relevant decisions of the United 
Nations, to put an end to the critical situation in Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) 
which, as repeatedly affirmed by the Security Council, constitutes a threat to 
international peace and security, 

Reaffirming that any attempt to negotiate the future of Zimbabwe with the 
illegal regime on the basis of independence before majority rule would be in 
contravention of the inalienable rights of the people of the Territory and contrary 
to the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and of resolution 1514 (XV), 

Condemning the continued oppression of the people of Zimbabwe by the illegal 
racist minority regime, the arbitrary imprisonment and detention of political 
leaders and others, the illegal execution of freedom fighters and the continued 
denial of fundamental human rights, including in particular the criminal measures 
of collective punishment, as well as the measures designed to create an apartheid 
State in Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), 

Condemning the continued illegal presence and intensified military 
intervention of South African forces in the Terri tory, which assist the racist 
minority regime and seriously threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity 
of neighbouring African States, 

Strongly condemning the illegal racist minority regime for the repeated 
abductions of Zimbabweans in Botswana in total disregard of their fundamental 
human rights and in open violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
that country, 

Deeply concerned about the negative attitude of the United Kingdom authorities 
towards the national liberation movements of Zimbabwe, as manifested, inter alia, 
by the refusal of those authorities to issue passports and travel documents to 
members of the movements, 

Noting with satisfaction the recent achievements attained by the national 
liberation movements of Zimbabwe through their determined struggle towards freedom 
and independence, despite the intensified military and police repression and other 
acts of violence and harassment carried out against them by the illegal regime, 

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Zimbabwe to self-
determination, freedom and independence and the legitimacy of their struggle to 
secure by all the means at their disposal the enjoyment of that right as set forth 
in the Charter of the United Nations and in conformity with the objectives of 
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV); 

/ ... 



A/9940 
English 
Page 6 

2. Reaffirms that the national liberation movements of Zimbabwe are the 
sole and authentic representatives of the true aspirations of the people of 
Zimbabwe; 

3. Reaffirms the principle that there should be no independence before 
majority rule in Zimbabwe and that any settlement relating to the future of the 
Territory must be worked out with the full participation of the genuine political 
leaders and the leaders of the national liberation movements, including in 
particular the Reverend Ndabaningi Si thole, President of the Zimbabwe African 
National Union, and Mr. Joshua Nkomo, President of the Zimbabwe African People's 
Union, and must be endorsed freely and fully by the people; 

4. Calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, in the discharge of its primary responsibility as the 
administering Power, to take all effective measures to terminate the illegal 
racist minority regime and not under any circumstances to accord to the illegal 
regime any of the powers or attributes of sovereignty, and requests that Government 
to ensure the country's attainment of independence by a democratic system of 
government in accordance with the aspirations of the majority of the population; 

5. Calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom to bring about the 
conditions necessary to enable the people of Zimbabwe to exercise freely and fully 
their right to self-determination and independence, including: 

(a) The expulsion of all South African forces from the Territory forthwith; 

(b) The unconditional and immediate release of all political prisoners, 
detainees and restrictees, including in particular the Reverend Ndabaningi Sithole 
and Mr. Joshua Nkomo; 

(c) The discontinuance forthwith of all repressive and discriminatory 
measures, including the arbitrary closure of African areas, the eviction, transfer 
and resettlement of Africans and the creation of "protected villages" and new 
administrative 11 districts"; 

(d) The immediate cessation of the influx of foreign immigrants and 
mercenaries into the Territory and discontinuance of the immigration campaign 
entitled "Settlers 74"; 

(e) The removal of all restrictions on political activity and the 
establishment of full democratic freedom and equality of political rights; 

(f) The convening, as soon as possible, of a national constitutional 
conference where the genuine political representatives of the people of Zimbabwe, 
particularly the national liberation movements, would be able to work out a 
settlement relating to the future of the Territory for subsequent endorsement by 
the people through free and democratic processes; 

6. Further calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom to ensure' that, 
in any exercise to ascertain the wishes and aspirations of the people of Zimbabwe 

I . .. 



A/9940 
English 
Page 7 

as to their political future, the procedure to be followed should be in accordance 
with the principle of universal adult suffrage and by secret ballot on the basis of 
one-man one-vote, without regard to race, colour or educational, property or income 
considerations; 

7. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom, bearing in mind its 
responsibility as the administering Power under Chapter XI of the Charter, to 
secure the full enjoyment by the African people of Zimbabwe, both within and 
outside the Territory, of their fundamental human rights, their just treatment and 
their protection against abuses, including in particular their right to travel 
freely, and to ensure the full utilization of all available assistance in 
co-operation, as appropriate, with the Un~ted Nations High Commissioner for 
Refugees; 

8. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom to take all necessary steps 
to secure the immediate release of the Zimbabweans abducted in Botswana and to 
prevent the future recurrence of all such acts; 

9. Requests all States, directly and through their action in the 
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system of 
which they. are members, as well as the non-governmental organizations concerned and 
the various programmes within the United Nations, to extend to the people of 
Zimbabwe all the moral and material assistance necessary in their struggle for the 
restoration of their inalienable rights; 

10. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom to remove any obstacles 
to the effective utilization by the African people of Zimbabwe, both within and 
outside the Territory, of offers by the States, organizations and programmes 
referred to in paragraph 9 above of educational and training grants and facilities 
and, at the same time, to ensure that adequate resources are made available for the 
education and training of the people of Zimbabwe; 

11. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom, in keeping with its 
express readiness to do so, 4/ to co-operate with the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the-Implementation of the De~laration on the Granting of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in the discharge of the mandate 
entrusted to the latter by the General Assembly, and to report to the Special 
Committee and to the Assembly at its thirtieth session on the implementation of 
the present resolution; 

12·. Invites all Governments, the specialized agencies and other organizations 
within the United Nations system, the United Nations bodies concerned and 
non-governmental organizations having a special interest in the field of 
decolonization, as well as the Secretary-General, to take steps, as appropriate, to 
give widespread and continuous publicity through all the media at their disposal 
to information on the situation in Zimbabwe and the relevant decisions and actions 
of the United Nations, with particular reference to the application of sanctions 
against the illegal regime; 

13. Requests the Special Committee to keep the situation in 
under review and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its 

~ A/9623 (part IV}, chap. III, annex II. 

the Territory 
thirtieth session. 

I 



A/9940 
English 
Page 8 

The General Assembly, 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

Question of Southern Rhodesia 

Having examined the increasingly critical and deteriorating situation in 
Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), which the Security Co"'1cil, in its resolution 
277 (1970) of 18 March 1970, reaffirmed as constituting a threat to international 
peace and security, 

Strongly deploring the increasing collaboration which certain States, 
particularly South Africa, in violation of Article 25 of the Charter of the United 
Nations and of the relevant decisions of the United Nations, maintain with the 
illegal racist minority regime, thereby seriously impeding the effeccive application 
of sanctions and other measures taken so far against the illegal regime, 

Seriously concerned at the continued importation of chrome and nickel into the 
United States of America from Southern Rhodesia, in violation of the relevant 
decisions of the Security Council and in disregard of the related resolutions of 
the General Assembly, 

Deeply disturbed at recent reports of widespread violations of United Nations 
sanctions, including the operation of Southern Rhodesian aircraft for international 
passenger and cargo traffic and the participation of "Southern Rhodesian" teams at 
various sporting events, as well as the continued functioning of information and 
airlines offices of the illegal regime outside Southern Rhodesia and the resultant 
influx of foreign tourists into the Territory, 

Bearing in mind the views expressed by the representatives of the Zimbabwe 
African People's Union and the Zimbabwe African National Union, 

Reaffirming its conviction that the sanctions will not put an end to the 
illegal racist minority regime unless they are comprehensive, mandatory, 
effectively supervised, enforced and complied with, particularly by South Africa, 

1. Calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, having regard to its continued failure to bring down the illegal 
regime, to take forthwith all effective and decisive measures to terminate that 
regime, so as to restore to the people of the Territory their inalienable right to 
self-determination and independence as set forth in the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly 
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960; 

2. Strongly condemns the policies of the Governments, particularly the 
Government of South Africa, which, in violation of the relevant resolutions of the 
United Nations and in open contravention of their specific obligations under 
Article 25 of the Charter of the United Nations, continue to collaborate with the 
illegal racist minority regime, and calls upon those Governments to cease forthwith 
all such collaboration; 

I . .. 



A/9940 
English 
Page 9 

3. Condemns all violations of the mandatory sanctions imposed by the 
Security Council, as well as the continued failure of certain Member States to 
enforce those sanctions strictly, as being contrary to the obligations assumed by 
them under Article 25 of the Charter; 

4. Condemns the continued importation of chrome and nickel from Southern 
Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) into the United States of America, and calls on the Government 
of the United States to repeal speedily any legislation permitting such 
importation; 

5. Calls upon all Governments which so far have not done so: 

(a) To take stringent enforcement measures to ensure strict compliance by 
all individuals, associations and bodies corporate under their jurisdiction with 
the sanctions imposed by the Security Council and to prohibit any form of 
collaboration by them with the illegal regime; 

(b) To take effective steps to prevent or discourage the emtgration to 
Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) of any individuals or groups of individuals under 
their jurisdiction; 

(c) to discontinue any action which might confer a semblance of legitimacy 
on the illegal regime, inter alia, by forbidding the operation and activities of 
Air Rhodesia, the Rhodesia National Tourist Board and the Rhodesian Information 
Office, or any other activities which contravene the aims and purposes of the 
sanctions; 

(d) ' To invalidate passports and other documents for travel to the Territory; 

6. Reiterates its conviction that the scope of sanctions against the illegal 
regime must be widened to include all the measures envisaged under Article 41 of 
the Charter, and requests the Security Council to consider taking the necessary 
measures in that regard as soon as possible; 

7. Appeals to those permanent members of the Security Council whose 
negative votes on various proposals relating to the question have continued to 
obstruct the effective and faithful discharge by the Council of its responsibilities 
under the relevant provisions of the Charter, to reconsider their negative 
attitude with a view to the elimination forthwith of the threat to international 
peace and security resulting from the explosive situation obtaining in the 
Territory; 

8. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to follow the implementation of the present resolution, and 
invites the Security Council Committee established in pursuence of resolution 
253 (1968) concerning the question of Southern Rhodesia to continue to~co-operate 
in the related work of the Special Committee. 




