
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Twenty-ninth session 
Ac;enda item 82 

UNITED NATIONS SALARY SYSTEM 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/998h-A<J!d 
17 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Rapporteur: Mr. Mahmoud M. OSMA~ (Egypt} 

CONTENTS 

Paragraphs 

I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . 1 
II. HJTERNATIONAL CIVIL SERVICE COMNISSION 2 - 41 

A. Documentation before the Committee 2 - 18 

B. Discussion . 19 - 31 
c. Proposals and votinl'" 32 - 41 

III. SALARIES AND ALL01.JANCES OF STAFF IN THE PROF"ESSIONAL 
MID HIGHER CATEGORIES 42 - 72 

A. Documentation before the Committee 42 - 56 
B. Discussion . . 57 68 
c. Proposals and voting 69 - 73 

IV. RECOI-'IMENDATIONS OF THE Fil?TH COI1HITTEE T4 

74-36302 

Page 

2 

2 

2 

5 
8 

11 

11 

14 

16 

18 

/ ... 



-2-

I. II'TRODUCTION 

1. 'I'he Fifth Cornrrtittee considered agenda item 82 ~ jjUnited Nations salary system" 
at its l688th to l694th I'leetings, held from 10 to 16 December 197!1. The two 
questions dealt with were the draft Statute of the International Civil Service 
CoiT~ission and the proposals made by the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board ( ICSAB) on the salaries an<'~ allmrances of staff in the Professional and higher 
catep:ories. 

II. INTZTINATIONAL CIVIL S"RVICE COMI1I2SI0'! 

A. Documentation before the Co~mittee 

2. The Co~ittee had before it the report of the Secretary-General on the draft 
Statute of the International Civil Service Commission (A/9738 ano~ Add.l and Corr.l) 
and the related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions (A/989lf. 

3. The report of the Secretary-General contained observations on certain 
provisions of the original draft Statute which had~ been submitted to the General 
Assembly at its twenty-eighth session (A/9147 and Corr.l) and revised budgetary 
estimates for the operation of the Commission and its secretariat. At its 
twenty-eigpth session, the General Assembly, acting on the recommendation of the 
Fifth Committee following its preliminary consideration of the draft statute and the 
related interim report of the Advisory Committee (A/9370), had decided to defer 
consideration of the draft statute until its twenty-ninth session and had requested 
the Secretary-General, in the meantime, to cormnunicate the text of the draft 
statute to Governments of Member States for coiTment. The texts of 22 of the 26 
replies receiveO. were annexed to the Secretary-General 1 s report; the remaining 
four were in the nature of formal or interim acknowledgements. 

4. In consideration of the issues raised by the Advisory Committee in its interim 
report and of the views expressed by Member States both in the preliminary debate 
of the Fifth Com~ittee at its twenty-ei~hth session and in the written comments 
subm.itted subsequently, the Sec,-etary-General stated that modifications might have 
to be made to those provisions .of the draft statute relatinp to the composition of 
the Commission (article 2) and to its functions and powers (article 18). He 
suggested that it mipht be feasible initially to have two rather than three of the 
13 cofimissioners as full-time members, the Chairman and Vice-Chairman. He also 
proposed a revised text of article 18 aimed at removing any doubt about the 
indivisibility of the Cormission's powers and the equality of its members. 

5. The revised budget for the Commission subnitte<l by the Secretary-General 
estimated the costs of the Commission at ffil,236,ooo net of staff assessment for 
1975 and at $3,487,000 for the biennium 1976-1977. Of these amounts, the United 
Nations would pay about 33 per cent of the costs amountin~ to $407,800 in 1975 
and $1,150,300 in 1976-1977; the other organizations in the United !Jations common 
system would pay the rest. 

I . .. 



-3-

6. The budget estimates included provision for two full-time commissioners who 
would receive remuneration at the level of an Assistant SecretarJ-General and 
for a secretariat staff of 48 (20 Professional and above and 28 General Service); 
25 of the 48 posts would be existing posts transferred from the United Nations 
and the Specialized agencies (10 Prof~ssional anc_ above and_ 15 General Service) 
and 23 would be newly created posts (10 Professional and above and 13 General 
Service). 

T. In its report (A/9891), the Advisory Committee expressed the opinion that 
the revised draft statute provided a broadly acceptable framework for the 
functioninp; of the Commission. In its comments on individual articles, the 
Advisory CoTILmittee dealt in the main with those related to the functions of the 
Commission, its size and structure, and the division of responsibilities between 
the Commission as a whole and its full-time members. 

8, As regards the functions of the Commission, the Advisory Committee stated 
that it could not accept the provisions of article 11 (b) whereby authority would 
be granted to the Commission to establish the rates of allowances and benefits 
(other than pensions) for staff in the Professional and higher categories. It was 
of the view that the determination of the rates of major allowances and benefits 
should remain vested in the General Assembly and that the Commission's role should 
be confined to making recommendations. In addition, the Advisory Comrni ttee 
recommended that article 12, which defined the Commission's responsibilities in 
the area of General Service salaries, should be amended to specify that the 
Commission itself would determine when and at what nace it would ass=e those 
responsibilities, and that when the Commission acted on the request of an executive 
head to determine General Service salary scales at a particular duty station, its 
determination should apply to all staff in the same category at that station. 

9. On the size and structure of the Commission, the Advisory Committee stated 
that it was prepared to accept the conclusions of ACC that the Comm.ission should 
have a membership of 13 and that two of the commissioners should be full-time, the 
Chairman and Vice-Chairman. It also agreed that the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman 
should be designated by the General Assembly. 

10. As for the division of responsibilities between the Commission as a whole 
and its full..:time members, the Advisory Committee was of the view that 1rhile the 
revised text of article 18 proposed by the Secretary-General was an improvement 
on the original version, it was not fully satisfactory in that it did not specifY 
that all powers should be vested in the Commission, which might delegate 
responsib'.lities as it saw fit to ensure its efficient functioning. Accordinf,ly, 
the Advisory Committee recommended a rewording of article 18 to achieve the 
desired objective. 

11. The Advisory Committee also recommended that changes be made in articles 
1 (a), T, 21, 22 (b), 24, 30 and 32 respectively to incorporate the following 
provisions: 

I ... 



-4-

(a) A broad statement of the purpose of the Commission; 

(b) That the power of terminating an appointment of a Cownrrssioner should 
rest with the General Assembly upon receipt of the unanimous opinion of the other 
commissioners; 

(c) That the staff of the Commission should be selected in accordance with 
the provisions of Article 101.3 of the Charter of the United Nations; 

(d) That the budget of the Commission should be included in the regular 
budget of the United Nations; 

(e) 1bat the Commission should meet at least once every year; 

(f) That meetings of the Commission should be closed and that summary records 
should not be provided; 

(g) That any organization withdrawing its acceptance of the statute should 
give notice to the Secretary-General of the United Nations who should draw such 
notice to the attention of the United Nations General Assembly and, through the 
executive heads concerned, to that of the legislative organs of the other 
participating organizations. 

12. Finally, the Advisory Committee recommended that the term "staff 
representatives" referred to in various articles should be suitably defined. 

13. On the budget for the Commission, the Advisory Committee recommended that a 
clear differentiation should be made in it between the costs of the CorrMission and 
the cost of the supporting secretariat. In order to ensure that the full-time 
comurrssioners were seen to be independent of the secretariat, the Advisory 
Committee recommended that their remuneration should be set by the General Assembly 
outside the common system and should be in the form of an honorarium. 

14. With respect to the suggestion of the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board and the Secretary-General that it might be necessary on occasion to provide 
per diem compensation, in addition to the nayment of travel and subsistence expenses, 
to the other members of the Commission, th~ Advisory Committee suggested that the 
matter should be studied in the wider context of its general application to members 
of the United Nat ions bodies serving in their individual capacity. 

15. As to the staffing of the secretariat of the Commission, the Advisory Committee 
was of the opinion that the Commission should start its work with the staff to be 
made available by transfers from posts within the United Nations system. 
Accordingly, it recommended that for 1975 the Commission should be provided- within 
existing resources - with a total staff of 25, 10 Professional and above and 
15 General Service staff. 

16. The Advisory Committee recom~ended an increase in the budget prov1S1on in 
respect of documentation for the Commission to provide for the issuance of the 

I . .. 



-5-

Commission's documentation in the five working languages of the subsidiary organs 
of the General Assembly. This would involve an additional cost of $15,000 for 
1975, above the figure cited by the Secretary-General. 

17. On the basis of its recommendations, the Advisory Committee arrived at a 
budget for the Commission in 1975 of $920,000, as against the Secretary-General's 
estimate of $1,236,000. The net extra cost to the United Nations would be $54,000. 

18. At its l690th meeting, on 12 December 1971~, the Fifth Committee received at its 
request a document (A/C.5/L.l213) containing the a~endments to the draft statute of 
the Commission prepared by the Secretariat on the basis of the recommendations of 
the Advisory Committee. At the l692nd meeting, it received a revised text of the 
draft statute (A/C.5/L.l217) containing the amendments recorrnended by the Advisory 
Committee, with the exception that two alternatives were put forward for article 7 
dealing with the power to terminate an appointment of a Commissioner -· alternative l 
was the recomnendation of the Advisory Committee and alternative 2 that of the 
Secretary-General. 

B. Discussion 

19. All the delegations participating in the discussion attached importance and a 
sense of urgency to brinring tbe International Civil Service Commission into 
operation so that the com-prehensive review of the United Nations salary system 
begun in 1971 by the Special Co=ittee for the Review of the United l!ations Salary 
System could be completed. ~rhe concerns, doubts and misgivings voiced by a number 
of delegations over the approaches followed or not follo~<ed by ICSAB in its 
assessment of the need for an adjustment in the base salaries of staff in the 
Professional and higher categories (see chanter III) contributed to this sense of 
urgency. It was noted that aJ 1 parties - includinc; ICSAB itself - agreed that the 
use of piecemeal or stop-gap measures to meet problems arising under the present 
salary system should be broup:ht to an end. 

20. The discussion of the draft statute centred on the amendments nroposed by 
the Secretary-General and the Advisory Comrrittee.in their respective reports. For 
the most part, those amendments involved articles related to the composition 
and appointment of the Commission, its functions and powers and its procedures. 

21. Although some delegations expressed preference for a more COI!l:r;Jact Commission, 
a consensus emerged that the Commission should be composed of 13 members so as to 
make it sufficiently representative to command r,eneral confidence, that the 
commissioners should be selected on the basis of equitable geo~raphical 
representation and appointed by the General Assembly, and that the independence of 
the Comrrission and of the individual commissioners should. be respected by all, 
subject only to the overridinp: consideration that the Commission woulo. be responsible 
as a body to the General Assembly. !lost delegations supported the suggestion of 
the Secretary-General that the Commission should have two full-time members, its 
Chairman and Vice-Chairman (rather than three as provided in the original d.raft 
statute) who should be designated by the General Assembly. Several delegations 

/ ... 



-6-

indicated that they favoured the Commission having only one full-time meiTiber, its 
Chairman. These delegations also preferred that the Chairman be elected by the 
members of the Cow~ission for a term of one year with the ri~ht of re-election. 

22. As regards the powers and functions of the Commission, many delegations 
welcomed the amendment of article 18 proJJosed by the Advisory Committee which 
removed any doubts about the indivisibility of the powers of the Commission and 
the equality of its members, and clearly specified that the Commission should retain 
the power to delegate responsibilities to its Chairman, Vice-Chairman or to any 
other member or members as it saw fit. 

23. Hith regard to the responsibilities of the Commission in respect of the 
allowances and benefits of staff, most delegations supported the proposal of the 
Advisory Comnittee that the determination of the rates of the major allowances 
and benefits, particularly those involving basic social policy, should remain 
vested in the General Assembly. Accordin~ly, they favoured the proposed amendments 
to articles 10 and 11. One delegation expressed the view that the original 
drafting of those articles made the correct distinction between those matters on 
which the Corr~ission should make recommendations to the General Assembly and those 
on which it should have regulatory powers. It felt that serious administrative 
difficulties might arise if decisions on the amounts of benefits, as distinct from 
principles on which such benefits were to be calculated, had to await the following 
session of the General Assembly. 

24. A number of delegations commented favourably on the amendments proposed by the 
Advisory Committee to article 12 which dealt with the resuonsibilities of the 
Commission in the area of General Service salaries. They felt that the 
determination of General Service salaries would add considerably to the workload 
of the Commission and that, therefore, it should adopt a gradual approach to the 
assumption of those responsibilities. Because of the importance and complexity 
of its immediate task of reviewing the salary system the Com~ission should avoid 
the temptation to do too much too quickly and should be selective in establishing 
its initial work pro~ramme. 

25. One delegation spoke in favour of the recommendation of the Advisory 
Committee that the term ''staff representatives" mentioned in several articles 
should be defined while another felt that this was purely an administrative matter 
which could best be dealt with outside the terms of the statute itself. 

26. Some dele@"ations raised questions in regard to the implications of the 
Advisory Committee's recommendation that article 7 be amended to specify that the 
power of terminating the appointment of a member of the Commission should rest with 
the General Assembly subject to the unanimous opinion of the other members of the 
Commission. 

27. In the course of the general discussion of the articles of the draft statute, 
agreement was reached on amending several articles not covered by the proposals of 
the Advisory Cowmittee. Among these were the revision of article 3 (b) to replace 
the words 'broad p:eographical distribution" with "eouitable geograuhical 
distribution", and the specification in article 27 that the establishment of 

I . .. 



-7-

subsidiary bodies by the Commission woulcc require the anproval of the General 
Assembly. It was also a@:reed that it was not necessary to define the term "staff 
representatives" in the draft statute. All such amendments were reUected in the 
revised draft statute contained in document A/C.5/L.l217. 

28. One delegation questioned the choice of Geneva, Switzerland to be the seat 
of the Commission. Upon being informed by the Under-Secretary-General for 
Administration and Management that Geneva was selected because it was the 
headquarters city for five of the organizations in the Unitced Nations common system 
and that, in addition, five other organizations had their headquarters in Europe, 
the delegation stated that the reason given seemed to contradict the provisions of 
article 6 (b) in that the organizations in Geneva might exert undue influence and 
pressure on the Commission. 

29. One delegation expressed the view that article 26 of·the revised draft 
statute with its provision that the decisions and recommendations of the Commission 
should not prejudice the acquired rights of the staff might constitute a serious 
impediment to the Commission's ability to revise and rationalize the salary system. 

30. In responding to various questions and points raised by delegations, the 
Under-Secretary-General for Administration and Hanagement made the following 
comments~ inter alia: 

{a) In accordance with the proVlSlons of General Assembly resolution 
3042 (XXVII), the representatives of the Secretary-General had undertaken 
consultations with the Advisory Committee on the 'Prospective candid.ates for 
appointment to the Commission; 

(b) Because the Secretary-General shared the reservation expressed by certain 
dele[';ations about the Advisory Committee's recommendation for changing arti@le 7, 
hie 'a.~ciiii!d hot t'o redraft the artic!Le but simply add a s•\l.bparagraph to make 
clear that the power of terminating a commissioner should be vested in the 
Commission. As amended, the article was along the lines of a similar provision in 
the statute of the International Court of Justice. Thus, two alternative texts of 
article 7 had been put before the Committee in the revised draft statute 
(A/C.5/L.l2l7)' 

{c) The Secretary-General did not feel that it was necessary to include in 
the draft statute the Advisory Committee's recom~endation that the Commission 
should not be entitled to summary records, since the General Assembly in 
resolution 2538 (XXIV), paragraph 10 {b), had. stated that verbatim or summary 
records would not be provided for a newly established subsidiary body of the 
Assembly unless specifically authorized. in the enabling resolution; 

(d) In view of the provisions of article 6 (a) which stated that the 
Commission would be responsible as a body to the General Assembly and to a similar 
provision in General Assembly resolution 3042 (XXVII) establishing the Commission 
in principle, the Secretary-General did not believe it to be necessary or desirable 

I . .. 



-8-

to explicitly state in the statute that the Commission should be subject to the 
general direction of the General Assembly as the Advisory Committee had 
recommended; 

(e) The provision in article 26 relating to the acquired rights of the staff 
was introduced because the United Nations Staff Regulations which had been adopted 
by the General Assembly included such a provision. The same was true for the 
regulations of the other organizations in the common system; 

(f) It was not essential to include a provision in the statute to indicate 
the date on which the statute would enter into effect. 

31. After reviewing the revised draft statute (A/C.5/L.l217), the Advisory 
Committee, through its Chairman, informed the Committee that it accepted the 
position of the Secretary-General outlined in points (b), (c) and (d) in the 
preceding paragraph. 

C. Proposals and votinp, 

32. At the 1692nd meeting, on 13 December, the representative of Portugal 
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.5/L.l215) sponsored by Afghanistan, the 
N~therlands, Portugal, Trinidad and Tobago and the Upper Volta. Subsequently, 
Austria and the Philippines joined as co-sponsors. The text of the draft 
resolution read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Recalling its resolution 3042 (XXVII) of 19 December 1972, by which it 
established, in principle, an International Civil Service Commission and laid 
down basic principles regarding its functions and composition and the method of 
appointment of its members, 

"Noting that the aforementioned resolution provided for the participation 
of the organizations of the United Nations common system in the development of 
the statute of the Commission and the choice of its members, 

"Taking into account the comments and recommendations of the Secretary-
General contained in his reports of 20 September 1973 (A/9147 and Corr.l), 
1 October 1974 (A/9738) and 22 October 1974 (A/9738/Add.l and Corr.l) and the 
observations and recommendations contained in the reports of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions of 30 November 1973 
(A/9370) and 29 November 1974 (A/9891), 

"1. Approves the statute of the International Civil Service Commission 
as set out in the annex to this resolution;* 

* The annex would include the draft statute contained in document A/9147, 
annex I, with the amendments suggested by the Advisory Committee in its report 
(A/9891). For the sake of brevity, it is not appended to this document. 

I . .. 



-9-

"2. Endorses the administrative and budgetary arrangements proposed for 
1975 by the Secretary-General (A/9738/Add.l), subject to the recommendations of 
the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/9891); 

"3. Requests the International Civil Service Commission to review, as a 
matter of priority, the United Nations saJ~ary system in accordance with the 
decision in paragraph 5 of resolution 3042 (XXVII) of 19 December 1972; and to 
submit an interim report on progress achieved to the General Assembly at its 
thirtieth session; 

"!,, Invites the organization members of the United Nations common system 
to participate in and contribute to the work of the Commission and requests the 
Secretary-General as head of the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination to 
report on relevant developments to the General Assembly at its thirtieth 
session. 11 

33. At the same meeting, the representative of Algeria introduced an oral 
amendment to the revised draft statute (A/C.5/L.l217) that was to be annexed to 
the draft resolution mentioned above. The amendment was to revise article 22 to 
read "The seat of the Commission shall be New York, United States of America." 

34. The representative of Algeria stated that the Commission could carry out its 
mandate more effectively, efficiently and economically in New York. If it were 
located in Geneva, the Commission and those of its members who had been nominated by 
the specialized agencies might be subjected to undue pressure and influence because 
of the large concentration of organizations and staff in Europe in general and in 
Geneva in particular. Other delegations concurred with that view. 

35. Those delegations favouring Geneva as the seat of the Commission drew 
attention to the fact that the mandate of the Commission was to regulate and 
co-ordinate the conditions of service of the United Nations common system which 
included 12 organizations, 10 of which had their headquarters in Europe; in 
addition, the United Nations had a major office in Geneva which could service the 
Commission. This task could be more effectively carried out if the Commission had 
its seat near the largest number of organizations so that it might comnw.nd~a high 
degree of confidence from the specialized agencies and their staff, The argument 
that the independence of the Commission would be affected by its location should 
not be accepted. Finally, it was noted that all the budgetary estimates in the 
reports of the Secretary-General and the Advisory Committee had been based on the 
assumption that Geneva would be the seat of the Commission. 

36. In response to questions raised as to how Geneva had been selected in the 
first place and on the budgetary implications of changing to New York, the Under-
Secretary-General for Administration and Management drew attention to the fact that 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of General Assembly resolntion 3042 (XXVII) which established 
the Commission in principle provided that the draft statute should be prepared by 
the Secretary-General and his colleagues in ACC. Therefore, as the draft statute, 
including the selection of Geneva as the seat of the Commission, was the collective 
recommendation of ACC, the Secretary-General would be untrue to his 
responsibilities as Chairman of ACC if he were to take any other position. As for 

I . .. 



-10-

the financial implications') the C,ifference in costs were not larrre becC~,use the 
higher post adjustment costs in Geneva were alMost offset by the larger rental 
costs in New York. Cn the basis of the Advisory Committee's recommendations, the 
costs of the Commission for 1975, if it were located in Geneva 1fere estimated to 
total $919,800. On the sa>ne assumptions, the Secretariat had estimated that the 
costs for New York 'o'()uld total ~905 ,900. 

37. At its l693rd meeting, the Committee adopted the an;endrr,ent proposed by Algeria 
by 47 votes to 15, 1<ith 22 abstentions. 

38. At the same meeting, the CoMmittee decided 1<ithout a vote to accent 
alternative 2 under article 7 of the revised draft statute (A/C.5/L.l2l7). 

39. At the same meeting, the revised draft statute (A/C.5/L.l2l7) as amended 1<as 
adopted by 85 votes to none, 1<ith 2 abstentions. 

40. At its 1693rd m<Jeting, the Conunittee adopted by consensus the draft resolution 
(A/C.5/L.l215) as orally revised by its sponsors !J (see nara. 74 belo1<, draft 
resolution I). 

41. Prior to the vote on the draft resolution, the Under-Secretary-General for 
Administration and Hanac;e1"1ent dre1< attention to the fact that operative parngraph 2 
of the draft resolution, in endorsing the administrative and budgetary arrangements 
for 1975 put forward by the Advisory Committee, had the effect of limitin~ the 
staff of the Commission to the staff to be transferred from existing posts. This 
would inevitably lead to difficulties in getting the Com~ission started expeditiously 
and effectively. The existing staff in the posts to be transferred to the 
Commission secretariat were at present involved in the maintenance of the present 
salary system and, not particularly p-eared to the ne1< tasks of reviewing and revising 
the system. In addition, the Advisory Com~ittee had recommended that the 
Commission's budget for the biennium 1976-1977 should be based on the initial 
staffing level. This suggested a no gro1<th situation 1<hich mi~ht not bode 1<ell for 
the Commission's ability to ~eet the hi~h exnectations of all parties concerned. 

~/ The foot-note in operative paragraph 1 was deleted and, in operative 
paragraph l+, the 1.rords "organization n and "head vv were replaced by the words 
"organizations 11 and 11Chairman 11 , respectively 4 

I . .. 



-11-

III. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES OF STAFF IN THE PROFESSIONAL 
AND HIGHER CATEGORIES 

A. Documentation before the Committee 

42. The Committee had before it the report of the International Civil Service 
Advisory Board (A/9630), the note by the Secretary-General containing his comments 
on that report (A/9709 and Add.l), and the related report of the Advisory Committee 
on Aclministrative and BudGetary Questions (A/9919). In addition, the Conmi ttee 
received a note by the Secretary-General containinr; the text of a CO:r'!Jnunication he 
had received from the Chairman of the ContractinG Parties of the GATT on the 
subject of salaries and pensions (A/C.)/1(52). 

43. The report of ICSAB was submitted to the General Assembly in accordance with 
the Assembly's decision of 18 December 1973. In that decision the Assembly 
deferred consideration of the draft statute of the International Civil Service 
Commission, decided not to invoke the provisions of paragraph 2 of its resolution 
2742 (XXV) of 17 December 1970 which precluded adjustments of the base salary 
scales for staff in the Professional and higher categories until completion of the 
comprehensive salary review, and requested ICSAB to submit to the Assembly at its 
twenty-ninth session as a matter of priority a report with recommendations 
concerning the salaries of staff in the Professional and higher categories and 
staff allowances of the United Nations common system, to be effective from 
1 January 1975. 

44. In interpreting L;s mandate, the Board concluded that it had not been called 
upon to re-examine in any way the structure or basic principles of the United 
Nations salary system, and that it had not been requested to undertake a policy 
study but specifically to put forward recommendations. Accordingly, the Board 
concluded that in so far as base salaries were concerned its task was essentially 
the same as the one it had exercised in 1970 when it based its salary proposals on 
an analysis, inter alia~ of relative changes in real income. Thus, in its 
assessment of the base salaries of staff in the Professional and higher categories, 
the Board followed basically the same procedure as it had in 1970. As regards 
allowances, ICSAB accepted the suggestion of the organizations that it review only 
those allowances which represented major elements of pay, particularly those most 
significantly affected by inflation and currency changes. 

45. On the basis of its review of the relevant data put before it by the 
organizations, the Board recommended that: 

(a) As an interim measure designed to "restore a measure of equilibrium to 
a situation in flux", the net base salaries of Professional and higher categories 
should be increased by 6 per cent with effect from l January 1975; 

(b) The children's allowance payable to staff in the Professional and higher 
categories should be increased from $300 a year to $450, with effect from 
1 January 1975; 

/ ... 



-12-

(c) That no change be made in the amount of the spouse allowance which at 
present amounts to $4oo a year; 

(d) That the rates of the assignment allowance for duty stations outside 
Europe and ;forth America should be established as set out in paragraph 61 of its 
report. In the case of assignments in Europe and North America the present rates 
of the allowance should be retained; 

(e) That no changes should be made in the maximum amount of the education 
grant or in the modalities of payment, pending review by the International Civil 
Service Commission. 

46. On the request of ACC that the Board take into consideration the possibility 
of consolidating additional classes of post adjustment into the salary base, the 
Board felt that it did not have at hand all the elements for a firm recommendation 
as to whether two or three classes of post adjustment should be consolidated on 
l January 1975, and therefore limited its recommendation to an expression of its 
hope that further consideration could be given to the question. As regards the 
four-month waiting period for the application of changes in post adjustment, the 
Board urged the organizations to examine the desirability and feasibility of 
reducing this period. 

47. Finally, in its comments on the status of proposals for the International 
Civil Service Commission, the Board emphasized the urgency with which it saw the 
need for an early establishment of a Commission so as to bring about as soon as 
possible the completion of the review of the salary system in order to avoid 
successive applications of stop-gap measures. 

48. In his report, the Secretary-General stated that although he understood the 
reasons which prompted the Board to propose a more modest increase in basic 
salaries than had been proposed by ACC and to make no decision on the spouse 
allowance and ec'.ucation grant, he was disappointed that the Board did not find it 
possible to consider favourably the well-founded arguments put before it by the 
organizations in support of their proposals. Nevertheless, the Secretary-General 
stated that he and his colleagues in ACC were prepared to support the Board's 
proposals. 

49. In pursuance of the views expressed by the Board on the consolidation of 
classes of post adjustment into the base salary scales and on the four-month 
waiting period for post adjustments, the Secretary-General recommended, on the 
basis of further consideration of these two items, that two classes of post 
adjustment be consolidated on 1 January 1975, and that the waiting period for post 
adjustments be reduced to three months. 

50. 'rhe Secretary-General estimated the net additional cost of the proposals for 
the United Nations regular budget in 1975 as $13.3 million gross, ii57.4 million net 
(after subtracting increased staff assessment income). 

I ... 



-13-

51. In its report (A/9919), the Advisory Committee concurred with the 
recommendations of the Board in respect of the dependency allowances, the assignment 
allowance and the education grant. On the question of base salaries, the Advisory 
Committee agreed with the implicit view of the Board that the increase proposed by 
the Secretary-General and by FICSA would not, in present circumstances, be 
justified. At the same time it felt that whether or not the Board's recommendation 
was fully warranted was debatable. While accepting the Board's conclusion that it 
had not been called upon to re-examine the basic principles of the international 
salary system, the Advisory Committee felt that more emphasis might have been 
placed on the application of the Noblemaire principle which envisaged that salaries 
of international civil servants should be related to those of the best paid 
national civil service. In the annexes to its report, the Advisory Committee 
presented tables showing the relationship between United Nations net remuneration 
and that of the United States federal civil service. These tables showed that the 
United Nati•ns net remuneration in New York exceeded that of the United States 
federal service in New York by much more than the 15 per cent (23 to 45 per cent) 
which the Special Committee for the Review of the United Nations Salary System, with 
four members dissenting, and ICSAB itself had c~nsidered adequate in their reports 
to the General Assembly in 1972. The Advisory Committee stated that no conclusive 
evidence had been produced to corroborate the suggestion made to the Committee that 
the United States civil service was no longer the highest paid national civil 
service. However, the Advisory Committee also pointed out, in paragraph 10 of its 
report, that the General Assembly had decided to transmit the report of the Salary 
Review Committee and the related comments of ICSAB to the International Civil 
Service Commissione 

52. In reviewing the considerations which led the Board to make its recommendation, 
the Advisory Com~ittee expressed some doubts about the use of the index of the 
movement in the salary rates for the national civil services at the seven 
headquarters countries, since no account had been taken of the absolute size of 
those salaries. Moreover, it questioned the time period used in arriving at the 
real income increase figure used by the Board as part of the case for the 6 per cent 
recommendation. 

53. However, taking into consideration that the basic data available to it was 
susceptible to different interpretations, the Advisory Committee decided not to 
oppose the Board's recommendation. At the same time, the Advisory Committee felt 
that the doubts concerning the increase stressed the urgency of the need for the 
more comprehensive review of the structure of the United Nations salary system to 
be completed. 

54. As regards the proposal of the Secretary-General to consolidate two classes of 
post adjustment into the base salary scales, the Advisory Committee noted that five 
classes of post adjustment had been consolidated on l January 1974 and concluded 
that, pending the completion of the review of the whole salary structure, any 
further consolidation of post adjustment might, by reducing the degree of 
flexibility, impede the implementation of any new salary structure which emerged 
from the comprehensive review. It also indicated its disappointment that the 
World Health Organization had not as yet accepted the recommendation made by the 
General Assembly at its twenty-eighth session that it discontinue its practice of 
not applying negative post adjustments. For these reasons, the Advisory Committee 
stated that it could not endorse the consolidation proposal. 

I ... 



-14-

55. The Advisory Committee also stated that it could not endorse the Secretary-
General's proposal that the waiting period for the application of post adjustment 
be reduced from four months to three. It was of the view that the protection 
against the effects of rising prices (the waiting period did not apply in cases of 
currency realignment) afforded to United Nations staff by the post adjustment 
system was already better than that provided by the salary systems of most national 
civil services. 

56. Finally, the Advisory Committee stated t!,at the financial implications of 
adopting the ICSAB proposals (which did not include the consolidation of two 
classes of post adjustment into the base salary scales) would be $6.2 million net 
(after offsetting increased staff assessment income). The cost to the United 
Nations system as a whole would amount to $16.2 million for the regular budgets 
and $9.8 million for programmes financed from voluntary contributions, i.e. a total 
of $26 million. 

B. Discussion 

57. Although delegations commented on all the proposals before them, the 
discussion covered in the main the approach used by ICSAB to determine whether the 
base salaries of staff in the Professional and higher categories should be adjusted 
and the salary data contained in the reports before the Committee. 

58. Several delegations expressed agreement with the Advisory Committee that ICSAB 
should have placed more emphasis on the Noblemaire Principle under which United 
Nations remuneration was to be related to that of the highest paid national civil 
service, which at present was the United States civil service. They pointed out 
that the amounts by which United Nations net remuneration exceeded that of the 
United States civil service at the traditional matching grades had been steadily 
increasing over the years, and that with the addition of a 6 per cent increase on 
l January 1975, the differential in pay between the two services would exceed that 
which applied on l July 1971 and would be far in excess of the 15 per cent 
differential which the Special Committee for the Review of the United Nations 
Salary System as well as ICSAB itself had considered to be adequate in its report 
to the General Assembly in 1972. 

59. Some delegations also felt the real income loss approach was not justified 
because the post adjustment system afforded United Nations staff a higher measure 
of protection against inflation than was the case in the salary systems of most 
national civil services. One delegation was of the view that the level of salaries 
established in 1971 had been too high. 

60. Other delegations stated that the approach followed by the Board was largely 
determined by its mandate. They recalled that increasing disagreement over the 
application of the Noblemaire Principle had been one of the primary reasons for the 
establishment of the 1971 Special Committee. The recommendations of that Committee 
had been referred to the International Civil Service Commission for further 
consideration. Since it was for the Commission to complete the examination of the 
structure and principles of the salary system, ICSAB could have done no more than 
assess the extent to which the real value of United Nations salaries had eroded 
since 1 July 1971. 

/ ... 



-15-

61. Some delegations felt that the United Nations/United States salary comparisons 
contained in the annex of the Advisory Committee's report raised a number of 
questions regarding matching grades, choice of comparison dates, the nature of the 
two services, and the exclusion of housing payments and other emoluments, which 
could only be resolved as part of a comprehensive review. It was felt that the 
staff should not be penalized for the failure of Member States to reach agreement 
on the salary question after it had reviewed the report of the last Salary Review 
Committee, and for the delays in bringing the International Civil Service Commission 
into operation. 

62. Several delegations indicated that they were prepared to accept a salary 
increase of 3 to 4 per cent on the basis of the real income loss due to the 
compensation shortfall inherent in the post adjustment system, but could not accept 
the additional 3 per cent arrived at by using the index of the movement of 
salaries of the national civil services of the seven headquarters countries. In 
their view the use of the latter was highly questionable for the reasons set out 
by the Advisory Committee in its report. Moreover, they noted that United Nations 
remuneration was already much higher than that of the highest paid national civil 
service., 

63. Several delegations stated that the salary increase proposal should be viewed 
• in the context of the financial difficulties of the organization and of the 

austerity measures being introduced at the national levels to deal with serious 
economic problems. It was also felt that the morale problems often cited in 
appeals for support of the increase were due more to the absence of an effective 
management policy and the misuse of staff. 

64. Many delegations spoke of their concern and disquiet that the data in the 
various reports were not entirely convincing and subject to different 
interpretations. However, they felt a good case had not been made for any 
alternative proposal. In order to give the Commission the time it needs to complete 
a thorough examination of the whole question, they favoured adopting the interim 
increase proposed by the Board. One,. delegation cautioned that it would be unwise 
to substitute an arbitrary and perhaps politically inspired judgement for the 
position taken by ICSAB and the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions. 

65. In his statement to the Committee at its l689th meeting, the Secretary-General 
expressed the hope that the vital interests of the xorganizations and the staff in 
the United Nations common system would be kept in mind and that the salary question 
would not be decided in the context of immediate United Nations budgetary problems. 
He observed that the proposals before the Committee were modest and had been largely 
supported by the Advisory Committee. They had been arrived at after a careful 
review and assessment of many aspects of the system by ll. eminent experts com~ng 
from all the important regions of the world. For those reasons, he stated that it 
would be wise to accept the judgement of the experts to whom the Assembly had 
entrusted the difficult task. 

66. As regards the allowances, most delegations spoke in favour of the 
recommendations of ICSAB.. Several delegations felt that no changes should be 
made pending a review by the Cownrrssion. 

I . .. 



-16-

67. There was a consensus in favour of the position of the Advisory Committee 
that there should be no further consolidation of classes of post adjustment into 
the base salary scale and no change in the four-ffionth rule in respect of post 
adjustment changes. 

68. A fuller account of the discussion can be found in the summary records of the 
1688th to 1693rd meetings of the Fifth Committee. 

C. Proposals and voting 

69. At the 169lst meeting, on 12 December, the representative of Algeria, on 
behalf of Algeria, Guyana, the United Republic of Tanzania and Yugoslavia, 
introduced a draft resolution which was circulated as a document on the following 
day (A/C.5/L.l216). The text of the draft resolution is identical with that of 
draft resolution U A contained in paragraph 74 below. 

TO. A number of delegations spoke in favour of the draft resolution while others 
voiced opposition to the draft resolution as a whole or to parts of it. The 
arguments in favour and against the proposals to adjust the base salaries and 
selected allowances of staff in the Professional and higher categories >rere 
essentially those given under section B. 

Tl. At : :1e 1693rd meeting, on 13 December~ at the request of the representative 
France separate votes were taken on the three subparagraphs of the operative 
para~,J~i- ;oh of the draft resolution as follows: 

(a) Subparagraph (a) was adopted by 50 votes to 21, with 14 abstentions; 

(b) Subparagraph (b) >ras adopted by 67 votes to 10, with T abstentions; 

(c) Subparagraph ( c ) was adopted by 67 v~tes to 9, >rith 9 abstentions. 

72. At the same meeting, the draft resolution (A/C.5/L.l216) was adopted by a 
roll-call vote of 54 to 21, with 12 abstentions (see para. 74 below, draft 
resolution II A). The voting was as follmcs: 

of 

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, fl.ustralia, Austria, Bahrain, Brazil, Canada, 
Chile, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Dem,lark, Finland, GPrmany 
(Federal Rept:blic of), Greece, Guyana~ India, Indonesia, Iran} 
Ireland, ~Jamaica, Japan, Kenya~ KhP'l.er Republic, Kuwait, Lesotho, 
Liberia~ Libyan Arab Republic, Halaysia, ~'·fali, i'.Tcrocco, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, rTigeria, Non·ray, Oman, Pakistan 5 
Senegal, Singapore, Spain~ Sri Lanka 1 Sudan, Svreden, Tho..iland, 
Trinidad and Tobar;o, Tunisia~ Turkey, Uf_Sanda, United. Arab 
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire. 

/.,. 



Against: 

-17-

Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bulgaria, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, France, German Democratic Republic~ Israel, Italy, 
Malawi, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Reuublic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United States of ~~rica. 

Abstaining: Albania, Bhutan, China, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, Ghana, Guatemala, 
Ivory Coast, ~!exico, Sierra Leone, Upper Volta. 

73. The Under-Secretary-General for Administration and Mangement informed the 
Co~~ittee that a draft resolution amending the apuropriate provisions of the 
Staff Regulations would be included in the report (see pera. 74 below, draft 
resolution II B). 



-18-

IV. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIFTH CO!~ITTEE 

74. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

International Civil Service Commission 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 3042 (XXVII) of 19 December 1972, by which it 
established, in principle, an International Civil Service Commission and laid down 
basic principles regarding its functions and composition and the method of 
appointment of its members, 

Noting that the aforementioned resolution provided for the participation of 
the organizations of the United Nations common system in the development of the 
statute of the Commission and the choice of its members, 

Taking into account the comments and recommendations of the Secretary-General 
contained in his reports of 20 September 1973, ~ 1 October 1974, J/ and 
22 October 1974 ~ and the observations and recommendations contained in the 
reports of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions of 
30 November 1973 11 and 29 November 1974, £1 

1. Approves the statute of the International Civil Service Commission as 
set out in the annex to the present resolution; 

2. Endorses the administrative and budgetary arrangements proposed for 1975 
by the Secretary-General, 7/ subject to the recommendations of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions; 8/ 

3. Requests the International Civil Service Commission to review, as a matter 
of priority, the United Nations salary system in accordance with the decision in 
paragraph 5 of resolution 3042 (XXVII) of 19 December 1972, and to submit a progress 
report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session; 

4. Invites the organizations members of the United Nations common system to 
participate in and contribute to the work of the International Civil Service 
Commission and requests the Secretary-General as Chairman of the Administrative 
Committee on Co-ordination to report on relevant developments to the General 
Assembly at its thirtieth session. 

~ A/9147 and Corr.l. 
J/ A/9738. 
~ A/9738/Add.l and Corr.l. 

11 A/9370. 
£/ A/9891. 
1/ A/9738/Add.l. 
§/ A/9891. / ••• 



-19-

ANNEX 

CHAPTER I 

ESTABLISH! lENT 

Article l 

(a) The General Assembly of the United Nations establishes, in accordance 
with the present statute, an International Civil Service Commission, hereinafter 
referred to as the Commission, for the regulation and co-ordination of the 
conditions of service of the United Nations common system. 

(b) The Commission shall perform its functions in respect of the United 
Nations and of those specialized agencies and otber international organizations 
which participate in the United Nations common system and which accept the present 
statute (hereinafter referred to as the organizations). 

(c) Acceptance of the statute by such an agency or organization shall be 
• notified in writing by its execut~ve head to the Secretary-General. 

CHAPTER II 

COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT 

Article 2 

The Commission shall consist of 13 members appointed by the General Assembly, 
of whom two, who shall be designated Chairman and Vice-Chairman respectively, 
shall serve full-time. 

Article 3 

(a) The members of the Commission shall be appointed in their personal 
capacity as individuals of recognized competence who have had substantial 
experience of executive responsibility in public administration or related fields, 
particularly in personnel management. 

(b) The members of the Commission, no two of whom shall be nationals of 
the same State, shall be selected with due regard for equitable geographical 
distribution. 

Article 4 

(a) After appropriate consultations with Member States, the executive heads 
of the other organizations, and with staff representatives, the Secretcry-General, 
in his capacity as Chairman of the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination, shal2 

I . .. 



-20-

compile a list of candidates for appointment as Chairman, Vice-Chairman and members 
of the Commission and shall consult with the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions before consideration and decision by the General Assembly •. 

(b) In the same way, the names of candidates shall be submitted to the 
General Assembly to replace members whose ter~s of office have expired or who have 
resigned or otherwise ceased to be available. 

Article 5 

{a) The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the General Assembly 
of the United Nations for a term of four years and may be reappointed. Of the 
members initially appointed, however, the terms of four members shall expire at the 
end of three years, and the terms of four other members at the end of two years. 

(b) A member appointed to replace a member whose term of office has not 
expired shall hold office for the remainder of his or her predecessor's term. 

(c) A member of the Commission may resign on giving three months' notice to 
the Secretary-General. 

Article 6 • 
(a) The Commission shall be responsible as a body to the General Assembly. 

Its members shall perform their functions in full independence and with 
impartiality; they shall not seek or receive instructions from any Government, or 
from any secretariat or staff association, of an organization in the United 
Nations common system. 

(b) No member of the Commission may participate in the deliberations of any 
organ of the organizations on any matter within the competence of the Commission 
unless the Ccmr:issicn has re(iuested him or her to do so as its representative. Nor 
shall a member of the Commission serve as an official or consultant of any such 
organization during his or her term of office or within three years of ceasing 
to be a member of the Commission. 

Article 7 

(a) No appointment of a member of the Commission can be terminated unless, 
in the unanimous opinion of the other members, he or she has ceased to discharge 
the duties in a manner consistent with the provisions of the present statute. 

(b) Notification thereof to the Secretary-General by the Commission shall 
make the place vacant. 

Article 8 

(a) The Chairman shall direct the work of the Commission and its ·staff. 

(b) If the Chairman is unable to act, the Vice-Chairman shall act as Chairman. 

/ ... 



-21-

(c) For the purposes of the Convention on the Privileges and_Irumunities of the 
United Nations, the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the Commission shall have 
the status of officials of the United Nations. 

CHAPTER III 

FUNCTIONS AND POHERS 

Article 9 

In the exercise of its functions, the Commission shall be guided by the 
principle set out in the agreements between the United Nations and the othe: 
organizations, which aims at the development of a single unified international 
civil service through the application of common personnel standards, methods and 
arrangements. 

Article 10 

The Commission shall make recommendations to the General Assembly of the 
United Nations on: 

(a) The broad principles for the determination of the conditions of service 
of the staff; 

(b) The scales of salaries and post adjustments for staff in the 
Professional and higher categories; 

(c) Allowances and benefits of staff which are determined by the General 
Assembly; 2) 

(d) Staff assessment. 

Article 11 

The Commission shall establish: 

(a) The methods by which the principles for determining conditions of 
service should be applied; 

(b) Rates of allowances and benefits, other than pensions and those referred 
to in article 10 (c), tl,e conditions of entitlement thereto and standards of 
travel; 

(c) The classification of duty stations for the purpose of applying post 
adjustments. 

2) Dependency allowances and lancuage incentives for staff in the Professional 
and higher categories, education grant, home leave, repatriation grant and 
termination indemnity. 

I . .. 



-22-

Article 12 

(a) At the headquarters duty stations and such other duty stations as may 
from time to time be added at the request of the Adninistrative Committee on 
Co-ordination, the Commission shall establish the relevant facts for, and make 
recommendations as to the salary scales of, staff in the General Service and other 
locally recruited categories. 

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the executive head or 
heads concerned, after consultation with the staff representatives, may request the 
Commission to determine the salary scales at a particular duty station instead of 
making a recommendation. The salary scales so determined shall apply to all staff 
in the same category at the duty station. 

(c) In exercising its functions under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the 
Commission shall, in accordance with article 29, consult executive heads and staff 
representatives. 

(d) The Commission shall determine the date or dates on which it can assume 
the functions set out in this article. 

Article l3 

The Commission shall establish job classification standards for all categories 
of staff in fields of work common to several of the erganizations. It shall advise 
the organizations on the development of consistent job classification plans in 
other fields of work. 

Article 14 

The Commission shall make recommendations to the organizations on: 

(a) Standards of recruitment; 

(b) The development of recruitment sources, including the establishment of 
central rosters of qualified candidates, particularly at junior entrance levels; 

(c) The organization of competitive examinations or alternative selection 
procedures; 

(d) Career development, staff training programmes, including 
interorganization programmes, and evaluation of staff. 

Article 15 

The Commission shall make recommendations to the organizations on the 
development of common staff regulations. 

Article 16 

The Commission may, after appropriate consultations, make such recommendations 
to the organizations on other matters as it may consider necessary to achieve the 
purposes of the present statute. 

I . .. 



-23-

Article 17 

The Commission shall submit an annual report to the General Assembly, including 
information on the implementation of its decisions and recommendations. The report 
shall be transmitted to the governing organs of the other organizations, through 
their executive heads, and to staff representatives. 

Article 18 

The Commission shall establish policies and shall formulate guidelines with 
respect to all matters for which it has responsibility under this statute. In 
particular, it shall formulate recommendations under article 10 concerning the 
system of salaries and allowances and conditions of service; adopt the annual 
report under article 17; propose its budget estimates under article 22; and adopt 
its rules of procedure under article 30. 

Within the aforesaid policies and guidelines, the Commission may delegate to 
its Chairman, Vice-Chairman or to any other member or members, responsibility for 
carrying out specific functions under the statute other than those enumerated above. 
The Chairman, Vice-Chairman or the member or members concerned shall be resronsible 
to the Commission for the discharr>e of the functions dele<;ated to them and shall 
report to the Commission thereon. 

CHAPTER IV 

ADMINISTRATIVE, BUDGETARY AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS 

Article 19 

(a) The conditions of service of the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the 
Commission shall be determined by the General Assembly. 

(b) other members of the Commission shall be entitled only to travel and 
subsistence expenses in accordance with the rules established by the General 
Assembly for members of organs and subsidiary organs of the United Nations serving 
in their individual capacity. 

Article 20 • 

(a) The Commission shall have a staff as provided in the budget approved by 
the General Assembly. 

(b) The staff, selected in accordance with the prOVlSlOns of Article 101, 
paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations, shall be appointed by the 
Secretary-General after consultation with the Chairman of the Commission and, as 
regards senior staff, with the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination. All 
staff shall be appointed after appropriate selection procedures. In carrying out 
their duties, they shall be responsible to the Chairman and shall be removable only 
after consultation with him or her. 

(c) Subject to paragraph (b) of·the present article, the staff of the 
Commission shall be regarded for administrative purposes as officials of the United 
Nations, which shall provide the necessary administrative facilities for them. 

/ ... 



-24-

{d) 1•/ithin the relevant budgetary provisions, the Commission may employ such 
experts and auxiliary staff as it may deem necessary. 

Article 21 

{a) The Secretary·-General shall provide such office and conference facilities 
as the Commission may require. 

{b) The budget of the Co~mission shall be included in the regular budget of 
the United Nations. The budget estimates shall be established by the Secretary-
General, after consultation with the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination, 
on the basis of proposals by the Commission. 

(c) The expenditure on the Commission shall be shared by the organizations 
1n a manner to be agreed by them. 

Article 22 

The seat of the Co~mission shall be New York, United States of America 

CHAPTER V 

PROCEDURE 

Article 23 

(a) The Commission shall meet at least once every year. 

{b) The meetings of the Commission shall be held in private. 

Article 24 

{a) Recommendations of the Commission under article 10 shall be communicated 
by the Secretary-General to the executive heads of the other organizations . 

• 
(b) The decisions taken thereon by the General Assembly shall be communicated 

by the Secretary·-General to the executive heads of the other organizations for 
action under their constitutional nrocedures. 

{c) The executive head of each organization shall inform the Commission of 
all relevant decisions taken by the governin~ organ of his organization. 

(d) The recommendations under paragraph (a) above shall be communicated to 
staff representatives. 

Article 25 

(a) Decisions of the Commission shall be-promulgated under the signature 
of the Chairman and transmitted to the executive heads of the organizations 

I . .. 



-25-

concerned. If they affect the interests of the staff, they shall also be 
transmitted to staff representatives. 

(b) The organization concerned shall be notified of the principal reasons 
for each decision. 

(c) The decisions shall be applied by each organization concerned with effect 
from a date to be determined by the Commission. 

Article 26 

The Commission, in making its decisions and recommendations, and the executive 
heads, in applying them, shall do so without prejudice to the acquired rights of 
the staff under the staff regulations of the organizations concerned. 

The Commission may, with the approval of the General Assembly, establish 
subsidiary bodies for the purpose of carrying out particular tasks within its 
competence. The Commission may make arrangements with one or more of the 
organizations whereby they will carry out, on its behalf, functions of fact-finding 
and analysis. 

Article 28 

(a) The Commission shall be given such information as it may require from 
the organizatio~s for the consideration of any matter under examination by it. It 
may request fronl. any organization or from staff representatives written 
information, estimates or suggestions in regard to- such matters. 

(b) Executive heads of .the organizations and staff representatives shall have 
the right, collectively or separately, to present facts and views on any matter 
within the competence of the Commission. The manner in which this right shall be 
exercised shall be set out, after consultations with executive heads and staff 
representatives, in the rules of procedure established under article 30. 

Article 29 

Subject to the provisions of the present statute, the Commission shall 
establish its rules of procedure. 

CHAPTER VI 

OTHER PROVISIONS 

Article 30 

The present statute may be amended by the General Assembly. J\I!lendments shall 
be subject to the same acce]Jtance procedure as the present statute. 

I . .. 



-26-

Article 31 

(a) An organization may not withdraw its acceptance of the statute unless it 
has given to the Secretary-General of the United Nations two years' notice of its 
intention to do so. 

(b) The Secretary-General shall bring any such notice to the attention of the 
General Assembly and, through the executive heads concerned, to that of the 
legislative orgaus cf the oth2r particirating crganizations. 

I ... 



-27-

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

Salaries and allowances of staff in the Professional 
and higher categories 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the International Civil Service Advisory 
Board 10/ and the report of the Secretary-General, 11/ together with the report 
of the~dvisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, 12/ 

Decides that, with effect from 1 January 1975; 

(a) The net base salaries of Professional and hi~her categories shall be 
increased by 6 per cent; 

(b) The dependency allowance in respect of a child payable to staff in 
the Professional and higher categories sh~ll be increased from $300 to $450 
a year; 

(c) The rates of assignment allowance shall be revised dS recommended by 
the International Civil Service Advisory Board in paragraph 61 of its report. 

B 

!he General Assembly, 

Decides that, with effect from 1 January 1975: 

(a) Paragraphs 1, 3 and 9 of annex I to the Staff Regulations of the United 
Nations and regulation 3. 4 of the Staff Regulations shall be amended as shown 
in the annex to the present resolution; 

(b) The amounts of post adjustment for each 5 per cent variation in the 
cost of living above or below the new base level shall, at all the main headquarters 
areas and normally at all other offices, be those specified in the addendum to 
the report of the Secretary-General. 13/ 

10/ A/9630. 

11/ A/9709. 

12/ A/9919. 

13/ A/9709/Add.l. 



AN]I]EX 

Amendments to the Staff Re~ations of the United Nations 

nAnnex I 

"Salary scales and related provisions 

"l. The Administrator of the United ]I] at ions Development Programme, having 
a status equivalent to that of the executive head of a major specialized agency, 
shall receive a salary of $US 74,800 per year, an Under-Secretary-General shall 
receive a salary of $US 59,250 per year and an Assistant Secretary-General shall 
receive a salary of $US 53,250 per year, subject to the staff assessment plan 
provided in staff regulation 3.3 and to post adjustments wherever applied. If 
otherwise eligible, they shall receive the allowances which are available to 
staff members generally." 

"3. Except as provided in paragraph 6 of the present annex, the salary 
scales for staff members in the Director and Principal Officer category and in 
the Professional category shall be as follows (subject to the staff assessment 
plan provided in staff regulation 3.3 and to post adjustments wherever applied): 

" (In US dollars ) 

"Director and Principal Office category 

11Director ~ . . . . . . . 

"Principal Officer 

11
Professional category 

11Senior Officer . 

"First Officer 

$42,060 by increments of 
$1,210 to $45,690 

$35,000 by increments of 
$1,140 to $41,840 

$30,540 by increments of 
$870 to $38,370 

~24,220 by increments of 
$770 to $32,690 

\ "Second Officer . . • • . • . . . . • . . $19,670 by increments, of 
$650 to $27,470 

11Associate Officer 

"Assistant Officer • • • • 0 • • • • • • 

$15,750 by increments of 
$550 to ;121 ,250 

$12,020 by increments of 
$490 to $16 ,430" 



-29-

Article III 

Salaries and related allowances 

Regulation 3.4(a)(i) 

Substitute "$450" for "$300". 




