








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 107 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9911 
6 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

DECLARATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A NUCLEAR-FREE ZONE IN SOU'l'H ASIA 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Antonio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

1. The item entitled "Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in 
South Asia" was included in the draft agenda of the twenty-ninth session at the 
request of Pakistan (A/9706). 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee for consideration and report. 

3. At its 1987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided to have 
a combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to di~armament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely: 

Item 24: Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of the 
Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the funds 
thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries. 

Item 27: Napalm and other incendiary weapons and all aspects of their 
possible use. 

Item 28: Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons. 

Item 29: Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban. 

Item 30: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3079 (XXVIII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 31: Implementation of the Declaration of the Indran Ocean as a Zone of 
Peace. 

74-34682 I ... 



A/9911 
English 
Page 2 

Item 34: World Disarmament Conference. 

Item 35: General and complete disarmament. 

Item lCO: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) concerning 
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the 
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America 
(Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 101: Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East. 

Item 103: Prohibition of action to influence the environment and climate for 
military and other purposes incompatible with the maintenance of 
international security, human well-being and health. 

Item 107: Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia. 

4. The general debate on these items took place at the 1998th to 2016th meetings, 
from 21 October to 11 November. 

5. On 14 November, India submitted draft resolution A/C.l/L.681 and Pakistan 
submitted draft resolution A/C.l/L.682. Eoth drafts were introduced at the 
2020th meeting, on 15 November~ 

6. On 19 November, the Secretary-General submitted a statement (A/C.l/L.697) on 
the administrative and financial implications of draft resolution A/C.l/L.682. 

7. At its 2024th meeting, on 20 November, the First Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.l/L.681 by a recorded vote of 90 to none, with 32 ab~tentions (see 
para. 9 below, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burundij Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic~ 
Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, 
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, 
Finland, Gambia, German Democratic Republic., Ghana, Greece, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras., Hungary, Iceland, India, 
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Japan, Kenya., Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, 
Madagascar, Halawi '1 Mauritariia, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Morocco, Ne-pal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Oman, 
Panama, Paraguay 9 Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain~ Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, 
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

None. 

I . .. 



A/9911 
English 
Page 3 

Abstaining: Barbados, Burma, Central African Republic, China, Colombia, 
Congo, Dahomey, Denmark, El Salvador, Fiji, France, Gabon, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory 
Coast, Jordan, Libyan Arab Republic, Malaysia, Mali, Niger, 
Nigeria~ Norway, Pakistan~ Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone~ 
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America. 

8. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/C.l/L.682 was adopted by a recorded 
vote of 84 to 2, with 36 abstentions (see para. 9 below, draft resolution B). The 
voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Bolivia~ Botswana, Brazil, Burundi, Canada, 
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa 
Rica, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras; Iceland, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Ivory 
Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, 
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Pak.istan, Panama, Paraguay, 
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Sinr::apore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lank-" , Sudan, 
Swa,ziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Top:o, Tunis in., Turkey, Upanda, 
United Arrib Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta, 
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen. 

Against: Bhutan, India. 

Abstaining: Bangladesh, Barbados, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Fiji, 
France, German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Greece, Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Libyan Arab 
Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nigeria, Norway, Poland, 
Portugal, Sweden, Thailand, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United 
States of America, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMIUTTEE 

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption Of the 
following draft resolutions: 

Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 1378 (XIV) of 20 November 1959, which established the 
goal of general and complete disarmament under effective international control, 

I 



A/9911 
English 
Page 4 

Convinced that the highest priority should be accorded to measures in the field 
of nuclear disarmament, 

Recalling its resolutions 1652 (XVI) of 24 November 1961 entitled 
"Consideration of Africa as a denuclearized zone", 1911 (XVIII) of 27 November 1963 
entitled "Denuclearization of Latin America", 2033 (XX) of 3 December 1965 entitled 
"Declaration on the denuclearization of Africa" and 2286 (XXII) of 5 December 1967 
entitled "Treaty for the Prohibition of N~clear Weapons in Latin America", 

Recognizing that conditions and procedures for the creation of such zones 
differ from region to region, 

Recognizing further that, in appropriate regions and by agreement among the 
States concerned, the creation of nuclear-weapon-free zones could promote the cause 
of general and complete disarmament under effective international control, 

Considers, therefore, that the initiative for the creation of a nuclear-weapon-
free zone in the appropriate region of Asia should come from the States of the 
region concerned, taking into account its special features and geographical extent. 

B 

The General Assembly, 

Recognizing the right of States to harness nuclear energy for peaceful purposes 
and as an instrument of development and progress, 

Realizing at the same time the dangers of diversion to military purposes 
inherent in the development of nuclear energy, 

Recalling its resolution 2456 B (XXIII) of 20 December 1968 concerning the 
establishment of zones free from nuclear weapons, 

Expressing the conviction that the establishment of such zones in various 
regions of the world is one of the measures which can contribute most effectively 
to halting the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to promoting progress towards 
nuclear disarmament as a step towards general and complete disarmament under 
effective international control, with the ultimate goal of total destruction of all 
nuclear weapons and their means of delivery, 

Believing that the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones will strengthen 
the security of regional States against nuclear threat, 

Recalling the Antarctica Treaty of 1959, the Declaration adopted by the 
Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity in 
1964 and the Declaration adopted by the Foreign Ministers of the Association of 
South East Asian Nations in 1971, 

Bearing in mind that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone would, 
inter alia, entail: 

I ... 



A/9911 
English 
Page 5 

(a) Commitments by the States concerned to use exclusively for peaceful 
purposes nuclear materials and facilities under their jurisdiction and to prevent 
the testing, use, manufacture, produ~tion, acquisition or storage of any nuclear 
weapons or nuclear launching devices, 

(b) An equitable and non-discriminatory system of verification and inspection 
to ensure that nuclear programmes are in conformity with the foregoing commitments, 

(c) Undertakings by nuclear-weapon States not to use or threaten the use of 
nuclear weapons against the States of the region, 

Having considered the question of the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone in South Asia without prejudice to the extension of the zone to include such 
other regions of Asia as may be practicable, 

Desirous of preventing such a zone or any wider area as contemplated in the 
preceding paragraph from becoming involved in a ruinous nuclear arms race, 

Considering that the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
America!/ could serve as a model to be emulated with advantage by other regions, 

1. Takes note of the affirmation by the States of the region not to acquire 
or manufacture nuclear weapons and to devote their nuclear programmes exclusively to 
the economic and social advancement of their peoples; 

2. Endorses, in principle, the concept of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in 
South Asia; 

3. Invites the States of the South Asian region and such other neighbouring 
non-nuclear-weapon States as may be interested to initiate, without delay, necessary 
consultations with a view to establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone and urges them, 
in the interim, to refrain from any action contrary to the achievement of these 
objectives; 

4. Expresses the hope that all States, in particular the nuclear-weapon 
states, will lend their full co-operation for the effective realization of the aims 
of the present resolution; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to convene a meeting for the purpose of 
the consultations envisaged in paragraph 3 above, to render such assistance as may 
be required for the purpose and to report on the subject to the General Assembly at 
its thirtieth session; 

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session the 
item entitled "Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia". 

!/Official Records of the General ~ssembly, Twenty-second Session, Annexes, 
agenda item 91, document ~/C.l/946. 




