
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9903 
3 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 29 

URGENT NEED FOR CESSATION OF NUCLEAR AND THERMONUCLEAR 
TESTS AND CONCLUSION OF A TREATY DESIGNED TO ACHIEVE A 

COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Antonio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

1. The following item was included by the Secretary-General in the provisional 
agenda of the twenty-ninth session on the bas,is of General Assembly resolutions 
3078 A and B (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973: 

"Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed•to achieve a comprehensive test ban: report 
cf the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament." 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee for consideration and report. 

3. At its 1987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided to have a 
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely: 

Item 24: 

Item 27: 

Item 28: 

Item 29: 

74-33908 

Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of 
the Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of 
the funds thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries. 

Napalm and other incendiary weapons and all aspects of their 
possible use. 

Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons. 

Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test 
ban. 

I . .. 



A/9903 
English 
Page 2 

Item 30: 

Item 31: 

Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3079 (XXVIII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of 
Peace. 

Item 34: World Disarmament Conference. 

Item 35: General and complete disarmament. 

Item 100: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) concerning 
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the 
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America 
(Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 101: Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East. 

Item 103: Prohibition of action to influence the environment and climate for 
military and other purposes incompatible with the maintenance of 
international security, human well-being and health. 

Item 107: Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia. 

4. The general debate on these items took place at the 1998th to 2016th meetings, 
from 21 October to 11 November. 

5. The First Committee had before it, in connexion with agenda item 29., the 
following documents: 

(a) Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (A/9708-DC/237); 

(b) Letter dated ll April 1974 from the Permanent Representatives of 
Australia, Fiji and New Zealand to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/9593); 

(c) Letter dated 21 June 1974 from the Permanent Representative of Mongolia 
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9650); 

(d) Letter dated 8 August 1974 from the representatives of the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States o": America to the 
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9698); 

(e) Letter dated 14 November 1974 from the Permanent Representative of 
Hew Zealand to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/C.l/1051). 

/ ... 



A/9903 
English 
Page 3 

6. On 7 November, Australia, Fi,ji, Finland, Ghana, Iceland, Liberia, Malaysia, 
Mexico, New Zealand, Nigeria, thePhilippines, Sweden, Thailand and Venezuela 
submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.683) which was subsequently also sponsored 
by Ecuador, Morocco and Peru. The draft resolution was introduced by New Zealand 
at the 2013th meeting, en-s-November. 

7. At the 2019th meeting, on 14 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.683 was 
adopted by a recorded vote of 72 to 3, with 30 abstentions !/ (see para. 8 below). 
The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, BelrdUJ"., 
Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, 
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, 
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, 
Guyana, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, Libyan 
Arab Republic, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, nicaragua, ITireria, Eorway, Peru, Philippines, 
Senegal,. Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, United Republic of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yuroslavia, 
Zambia. 

Against: Albania, China, France. 

Abstaining: Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Central African Republic, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Iraq, Italy, Madagascar, Mali, 
Mauritania, Mongolia, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, 
Zaire. 

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST CO~ITHTTEE 

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

1/ Subsequently, the delegation of Colombia stated that, had it been present 
at the voting, it would have voted in favour of the draft resolution; and the 
delegation of Gabon stated that, had it been present at the voting, it would 
have voted against the draft resolution. 

I . .. 



A/9903 
English 
Page 4 

Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear 
tests and conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a 

comprehensive test ban 

The General Assembly, 

Gravely disturbed at the continuance of nuclear weapon testing since the 
twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly, 

Recalling its previous resolutions on this subject, 

Recalling the stated aim of the parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon 
Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water 2/ and the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation' of Nuclear Weapons 3/ to seek to a~hieve the discontinuance 
of all test explosions of nuclear weapons-for all time, 

Taking note of the special report of the Conference of the Committee on 
Disarmament on the question of a treaty banning undergyound nuclear weapons 
tests, IV 

Believing that the continuance of nuclear weapon testing will intensify the 
arms race, thus increasing the danger of nuclear war, 

Convinced that cessation of nuclear weapon testing would be in the supreme 
interest of mankind, both as a major step towards controlling the development and 
proliferation of nuclear weapons and to relieve the deep apprehension concerning 
the harrful conseauences of radio-active conta!'1ination for the health of present 
and future ~enerations, 

1. Condemns all nuclear weapons tests, in whatever environment they may 
be conducted; 

2. Reaffirms its deep concern at the continuance of such testing, both in 
the atmosphere and underground, and at the lack of progress towards a comprehensive 
test ban agreement; 

3. Calls upon all States not yet parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon 
Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water to adhere to it forthwith; 

g! United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480 (1963), No. 6964. 
lJ General Assembly resolution 2373 (XXII). 
IV A/9708-DC/237, sect. III. 

/ ... 



A/9903 
English 
Page 5 

4. Emphasizes once more the urgency of concluding a comprehensive test ban 
agreement; 

5. Reminds the nuclear-weapon States of their special responsibility to 
initiate proposals to this end; 

6. Calls upon all States to refrain from the testing of nuclear weapons, 1n 
any environment, pending conclusion of such an agreement; 

1. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to give the 
highest priority to the conclusion of a comprehensive test ban agreement and to 
report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session on the progress achieved; 

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session the 
item entitled "Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban". 




