
















































UNITED NATIONS 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9961 
GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 14 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 46 

UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRA!AME 

Report of the Second Committee 

Rapporteur: Hr. Luis LASCARRO (Colombia) 

1. ,~t its 2237th nlenary meet in~, on 21 Renterrber 1974, the General ,o.sserc,blc' 
allocated to the Second. Committee ar,enda item 46 ., entitled: 

"United Nations Environment Programme: 

" (a) Report of the Governing Council; 

''(b) United Nations Conference-Exposition on Human Settlements: 
report of the Secretary-General; 

" (c) Criteria governing multilateral financing of housing and human 
settlements: report of the Secretary-General." 

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 1622nd to 163lst.meetings, 
and at its 1635th, 1643rd, 1644th and 165lst meetings, on l, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 
15, 21 November and on 3, 4 and 9 December 1974. An account of the discussions 
of the Committee is contained in the relevant surr@ary records (A/C.2/SR.l622-163l, 
1635, 1643, 1644 and 1651). 

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following 
documents: 

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the establishment of an international 
fund or financial institution for human settlements (A/9575); 

{b) Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment 
Programme on its second session (A/9625); 

(c) Report of the Secretary-GEneral on the United Nations Conference-
Exposition on Human Settlements (A/9729); 

74-35882 I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 2 

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on criteria governing·multilateral 
financing of housing and human settle~ents (A/9790); 

(e) Report of the Economic and Social Council - (chapter VI, section C) 
(A/9603); 

(f) The Cocoyoc Declaration adopted by the participants in the UHEP/UNCTAD 
symposium on patterns of resource use) environment and development strategies, 
held at Cocoyoc, Nexico, from 8 to 12 October 1974 (A/C,2/292). 

4. At the 1622nd meeting, on 1 November, the Colll!11ittee heard an introductory 
statement by the Executive Director of the United 'lations Environment Programme. 

I 

5. At the 1626th meeting, on 8 November, the representative of Canada, on 
behalf of Australia, Canada, Colombia, Cyprus, ~he Dominican Republic, Egypt, 
Finland, Germany,(Federal Republic of), Ghana, Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Japan~ 
Jordan~ Kenya, the Libyan Arab Republic, Malaysia, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, 
Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, the United Repub'iiCof Cameroon and 
the United States of fi~erica, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l369) 
entitled "United Nations Conference-Exposition on Human Settlements". Subsequently, 
Argentina and Fiji joined in sponsoring the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l369). 

6. At the 1629th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted the draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l369) without a vote· (see para. 14 below, draft resolution I). 

II 

7. At the 1625th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Argentina, 
on behalf of Argentina, ~gypt, Iraq, ~~~Texico, Morocco, Sierra Leone and Venezuela, 
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l368), entitled "Report of the Governing 
Council" "J which read as follows: 

"The General Assembly" 

''Recalling its resolutions 2S'S'4 (YXVII), 2997 (1cX"II) and 3000 ("""II) of 
15 December 1972, 

"Recalling further its resolutions 2849 (XXVI) of 20 December 1971 and 
3002 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972, 

"Bearing in mind its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-1'1) of 
...L 1_ .. -"J.;r 1974 on the Declaration and the Prorrarr_rr,e of _l'_ction on the 
:~~stablishP'ent of a l1Te.;-r International Economic Order, 

"Reaffirming that both aspects of man's environment, the natural and the 
man-made, are vital to his well-being and to the exercise of basic human 
rights, 

/ ... 



A/9961 
English 
Page 3 

"Reaffirming further that the protection, preservation and enhancement 
of the environment for present and future generations is the responsibility 
of all States , 

"Conscious that pollution and the degradation and exhaustion of natural 
resources are essential problems of the environment~ 

"Concerned with the environmental impact that irrational and wasteful 
exploitation and consumption of natural resources produces in the world, 
particularly in developing countries, and with the threat that such 
exploitation and consumption represent for those countries in the exercise 
of permanent sovereignty over their natural resources, 

"Convinced of the need and urgency of attaininp- rational and optimal 
exploitation and consumption of natural resources, of avoiding their waste 
and of controlling pollution, intensifying to that end international 
co-operation, within the framework of collective ecological security, 

"Fully conscious of the importance and universality of environmental 
problems, including, inter alia, those pertaining to under-development, 
equity and social justice, and of the fact that, in crder to attain an urgent 
and effective solution to all such problems, national measures as well as 
measures of co-operation at the international level should be adopted, 

"Reaffirming the interdisciplinary and intersectoral nature and approach 
of the United Nations Environment Programme, and recognizing the benefits 
that the implementation of such an approach may provide for the solution of 
the problems of international co-operation on the environment that affect 
Member States, particularly developing countries, 

"Taking note with satisfaction of the Cocoyoc Declaration (A/C.2/292) 
adopted at the UNEP/UNCTAD Symposium on Patterns of Resource Use, Enviromnent 
and Development Strategies, held at Cocoyoc, Mexico, in October 1974, 

"Having considered the report of the Governing Council of the United 
Nations Envirorunent Programme on the vrork of its second session, and being 
convinced of the need to continue to strengthen its programme activities, 

"1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Govening Council 
of the United Nations Environment Progrmnme on the work of its second 
session; !/ 

"2. Requests the United Nations Environment Programme: 

"(a) To take fully into account the Declaration and the Programme of 
Action on the Establishment of a JJe'' International Economic Order in all 
the activities of the Progrmnme, and in particular in those P'rtaining to 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. 25 (A/9625). 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 4 

trade '7 economy, technology and transfer of technology~ and requests the 
Executive Director, in preparing the new formulation of the activities of 
this priority subject area of the Programme to be submitted to the Governing 
Council at its third session, to consider the need promptly to implement 
the New International Economic Order in its field of competence· 

"(b) To adopt measures to facilitate the participation of institutions 
of developing countries in the implementation activities of the Programme; 

''3. Requests the Governing Council of the United illations Environment 
Programme, taking fully into account the permanent sovereignty of States 
over their natural resources: 

" (a) To ensure that, in the implementation and development of the 
Global Environment >!onitoring System. (GET!S), its objective of detecting, 
far enough in advance~ impending changes <j Yrhether man-made or natural, 
occurring in any part of the environment and threatening to cause significant 
damage to man 1 s well-being is fully taken into account, in order to provide 
Governments with a basis for imm.ediate preventive action; 

"(b) To give attention., when considering the report on the International 
Referral System (IRS) to be submitted to it by the Executive Director of 
UNEP at its next session, to the needs of developin~ countries for information 
on the envircnment, and in particular to such needs of countries affected 
by problems of degradation and depletion of their natural resources with 
respect to which the exchange and timely provision of appropriate information, 
through IRS, would facilitate the adoption of measures for their solution; 

"4. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment 
Programme: 

" (a) To consult 11ember States on the environmental impact produced by 
irrational and wasteful exploitation and consumption of natural resources and<j 
on the basis of the replies received, to prepare a report for submission to 
the Governing Council of UNEP at its fourth session; 

"(b) To prepare, in consultation •,rith the other organizations of the 
United Nations systeJC, a study including recommendations for putting into 
practice, at the earliest possible time, the concept of ecodevelopment as 
a 'planning method enabling developing countries to achieve accelerated and 
self-sustained development? taking into account, inter alia, their economic, 
political, social, geographical, ecological and regional conditions, for 
submission to the Governing Council of UNEP at its fourth session; 

"(c) To draw the attention of Governments to the 'catalytic role' of the 
Programme,. approved at the second session of the Governing Council, as an 
effective means for the Programme to provide appropriate soluticns, 
particularly in the short term, to problems affectinv a country or group of 
countries of one rep,ion or of different regions~ and to submit a report to the 
Council at its next session on the problems 1odth respect to which this role 
could be utilized, principally for the benefit of developing countries; 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 5 

" (d) To accelerate consultations ,,rith the T,Torld ''eteorological 
Organization as well as 1rith jurists,, scientists and other experts on the 
desirability of developing a set of general principles and operative 
guidelines on vreather modification and other man-induced phenomena, 
including their operational and research aspects, and to report to the 
Governing Council on the subject at its fourth session; 

"(e) To consult the organizations of the United Nations system on their 
activities related to the environment vhich may contribute to the 
identification, formulation and development of principles of international 
environmental law and, on the basis of such consultations, to submit a report 
to the Governint, Council of UNEP at its third session: 

"(f) To give priority in the ir1plementation and development of GEI"S 
to those non-pollutant environmental parameters which 1Till facilitate the 
solution or prevention of environmental problems that affect or may affect 
principally developing count~ies; 

"(g) To bring IRS to the attention of ''cernber States as a means of the 
Programme for the exchange and timely provision of information among 
themselves, or with intergovernmental and private organizations, for the 
solution of environmental problems affecting them;. 

"(h) To consult the Governments of developing countries on the 
problems and matters related to the environment on 1<hi ch they 1wuld be 
interested in receiving training and technical assistance, and to submit 
a report, with the replies received, to the Governing Council of UNEP 
at its fourth session, with a vieH to the formulation of a training and 
assistance programme based on the specific needs of that group of countries." 

Subsequently, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Grnan, the Syrian Arab ~epublic, Uganda 
and Zaire joined in sponsoring the, draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l368). 

8. At the l630th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Argentina, on 
behalf of the sponsors, nov joined by Greece and_ Mali, introduced a revised 
draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l) which incorporated the follmTing chan(Ses: 

text: 
(a) The replacement of the seventh pre&~bular paragraph by the following 

"Concerned with the environmental impact of the irrational and wasteful 
exploitation and consumption of natural resources, particularly those of 
the developing countries, and with the threat that such exploitation and 
consumption represents to these countries in the exercise of their permanent 
sovereignty over their natural resources·''~ 

(b) The deletion of the words '\rith satisfaction" after the words "Taking 
note" in the eleventh preambular paragraph; 

(c) The re"ording of operative paragraph 2, subparagraph (a) to read as 
follows: 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 6 

''(a) To respond. fully to the Declaration and the Programme of Action 
on the Establishment of a Hew International Economic Order in all the 
activities of the Programme, and in particular in those pertaining to trade, 
economy, technology and transfer of technology, and requests the Executive 
Director to prepare the neH formulation of the activities of the Programme 
in this priority subject area to be submitted to the Governing Council at 
its third session, in full conformity with the Declaration and Programme 
of Action in order to implement promptly the New International Economic 
Order in its field of competence"; 

(d) The addition of the words "preparation, development and" between the 
words 'developing countries in then and 11 implementation 11 in operative paragraph 2, 
subparagraph (b); 

(e) The addition of the ~<rords ''and on the basis of close co-operation with 
all States" at the end of opera+.ive parag~aph 3 after the words "natural resources"; 

(f) The replacement of operative paragraph 4, subparagraph (e) , by the 
followi"lg text : 

"(e) To submit to the Governing Council of UNEP a.t its third session 
a. preliminary report on the legal aspects to which the organizations in the 
United JoTations system have given attention within the framework of their 
activities and which may contribute to the iil.entification, formulation and 
development of principles of international environmental law". 

Iran, Kenya, Peru and Uruguay joined in sponsoring the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l). 

9. At the 165lst meeting, on 9 Dece~ber, the representative of Argentina, 
on behalf of the sponsors, introduced a revised draft resolution 
(A/C. 2/L.l368/Rev. 2) ;rhi ch incorporated the followinf' changes: 

(a) The first and second preambular paragraphs of the former draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l) were now combined and constituted the first 
preambular paragraph; 

(b) The word ''threat" in the seventh preambular paragraph of the former 
draft resolution (A/C,2/L.l368/Rev.l) - sixth preambular paragraph of 
A/C. 2/L.l368/Rev. 2 - was replaced by the ;rord "fact'' and the words "a threat" 
v;ere inserted between the 1vords 11 represents' 1 and 11 to 11 • 

(c) The '"ords "with satisfaction" in the eleventh preambular paragraph 
of the former draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l368/Pev.l) were deleted; 

(d) The words "as crell as its co-ordinating functions" in the twelfth 
preambular paragraph of the former draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l) were 
added at the end of the paragraph; 

(e) The words "and of its adopted work prop:ramme" •·rere added at the end of 
the first operative paragraph; 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 7 

(f) .Subpara{Jrarhs (a) and (b) of crETative paracrec'h 2 1 ere re"orded as 
follo:·rs : 

"(a) To conduct its activities, in its field of competence, in line 
with the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of 
a Ne1,r International Economic Order; 

"(b) To adopt measures for intensifying efforts to facilitate the 
participation of institutions of developing countries in the preparation, 
development and implementation of the activities of the Programme"; 

(g) In operative paragraph 3, the words ''and continuous consultations" were 
inserted between the words : 1 co-operation~'~ and '\vith''~ 

(h) In subparagraph 3 (a), the woro. "design" >ras inserted in the first line, 
between the words "the" and "implementation", and the phrase "on the basis of 
voluntary participation of !·!ember States," was inserted before the 1wrds "its 
objective 11 ; 

(i) In subparagraph 3 (b), the word "particularly" was inserted behreen the 
words 11 the needs 11 and 11 of developing11 and, in the penultimate line, the word 
"timely" was inserted before the word "exchange"; 

(j) Operative paragraph 4 and subparagraph 4 (a) were modified to constitute 
h1o subparagraphs as follows : 

"4. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment 
Programme in keeping with the goals and objectives of the Programme: 

"(a) To prepare a report on the environmental impact resulting from 
the irrational and wasteful use of natural resources as reflected in the 
current methods and forms of production and consumption and to present it 
to the Governing Council of UNEP at its fourth session; 

"(b) To prepare the new formulation of the progrrumne activities in the 
priority subject area of trade, economics, technology and transfer of 
technology which is to be submitted to the Governing Council of UNEP at· its 
third session, by bringing these activities into line with the Declaration 
and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International 
Economic Order, in its field of competence 11 ; 

(k) Subparagraph (b) of thP former draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l) 
accordingly became subparagraph (c) and subparagraphs (c) to (h) became 
subparagraphs (d) to ( i) ; .. . 

by 
( 1) The Hard ''next' 

the '·'Ord "fourth 11 • 
! 

in subpara~raph 4 (c) (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l) was replaced 

I . .. 



11./9961 
Ene;lish 
Pae;e 8 

(m) Subparagraph 4 (d) (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l) was reworded as follows: 

0 To accelerate consultations vi th the 1-lorld Heteorological Organization 
as uell as ;rith jurists, scientists and other experts for developing a set 
of general principles and operative e;uidelines on studies for man-induced 
weather modification and related enviro~mental phenomena, including their 
operational and research aspects, and to report to the Governing Council 
on the subject at its fourth session 11 j 

() ·, " n The 1-rord equal 1..ras inserted bet11een the words " . glve and 1'priority" 
in subparae;raph 4 (f) (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l); 

(o) The vrord ntimely 11 ,..ras nlaced before the ..-...rord r;exchange': in 
subparagraph 4 (g) (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l); 

. ' \ n! The words "together 1?i th a summary of the experience achieved thus 
far in this area·;·,· was inserted betl.;een the 1-.rords ::session.'' and ·"in order··' in 
subparagraph 4 (h) (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.l). 

10. At the same meet inn:, the representative of the United States of America 
introduced an oral amendment to operative paragraph 4 of the revised draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.2) which called for the replacement of that 
paragraph by the follmring text: 

11 4. Requests the Governing Council of the United Nations Envirornnent 
Programme to consider requesting the Executive Director: 11 

11. .At the seme meetine;, the Committee: 

(a) Rejected the oral amendment proposed by the United States of ft~erica 
(see para. 10 above) by 65 votes to 6, with 36 abstentions; 

(b) Adopted the revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l368/Rev.2) by 
111 votes to l, with 1 abstention (see para. 14 belmr, draft resolution II). 

III 

12. t,t the 1643rd meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Jamaica, on 
behalf of Colombia, Jamaica, Kenya, the Philippines and Sierra Leone, introduced 
a revised draft resolution (A/C. 2/1.1382/Rev .1) entitled "Establishment of a 
United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation". 

J3. At the 1644th meeting, on 4 December, the Committee adopted the revised 
draft resolution (A/C. 2/1.1382/Rev .1) by 85 votes to none, with .11 abstentions 
(see para. 14 belmr, draft resolution III). 

/ ... 



A/9961 
English 
Page 9 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE 

14. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly, the adoption of 
the following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (HABITAT) 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 3001 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972 and 3128 (XXVIII) · 
of 13 December 1973, 

Fully conscious of the importance, urgency and universality of the problems of 
human settlements, 

Noting with satisfaction the appointment of the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations Conference-Exposition on Human Settlements, 5/ 

Stressing the need to pursue vigorously the preparations for the Conference, 

Affirming that human settlements policies should be considered in the context 
of over-all economic and social development, taking into account the special needs 
of development in developing countries, 

Having considered the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme on the work of its second session, Jl 

Having considered also the report of the Secretary-General, ~ called for in 
General Assembly resolution 3128 (XXVIII) of 13 December 1973, 

Noting tha,t the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference-
Exposition on Human Settlements held informal consultations from 28 to 31 May 1974, 

1. Decides that the United Nations Conference-Exposition on Human Settlements 
should henceforth be known as the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements 
(HABITAT); 

2. Considers that, for the Conference to achieve its objectives, it is 
essential that its agenda be selective, its organizational structure be simple and 
efficient, and its documentation be kept within reasonable limits; 

gj See A/9729, para. 5. 

Jl Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, Supplement 
No. 25, (A/9625). 

~ A/9729. 

I ... 



A/9961 
English 
Page 10 

3. Agrees that the Secretary-General convene the first formal session of the 
Preparatory Committee for HABITAT: the United Nations Confer.ence on Human 
Settlements at United Nations Headquarters from 15 to 24 January 1975; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the report of the Preparatory 
Committee on its first formal session to the Governing Council of the United 
Nations Environment Programme at its third session; 

5. Reaffirms its request to the Secretary-General to submit, through the 
Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme, a brief progress 
report to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 2849 (XXVI) of 20 December 1971 and 2994 (XXVII), 
2997 (XXVII), 3000 (XXVII) and 3002 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972, 

Bearing in mind its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) of l May 1974 on the Declaration 
on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order and 3202 (S-VI) of 
l May 1974 on the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International 
Economic Order~ 

Reaffirming that both aspects of man's environment, the natural and the 
man-made, are vital to his well-being and to the exercise of basic human rights, 

Further reaffirming that the protection, preservation and enhancement of the 
environment for present and future generations is the responsibility of all States, 

Conscious that pollution and the degradation and exhaustion of natural 
resources are essential problems of the environment, 

Concerned about the environmental impact of the irrational and wasteful 
exploitation ~nd consumption of natural resources, particularly those of the 
developing countries, and about the fact that such exploitation and consumption 
represents a threat to these countries in the exercise of their permanent 
sovereignty over their natural resources, 

Convinced of the need for and urgency of attaining rational and optimal 
exploitation and consumption of natural resources, of avoiding their waste and 
of controlling pollution, intensifying, to tl1at end, international co-operation 
within the framework of collective ecological security, 

Fully conscious of the importance and universality of environmental problems, 
including, inter alia, those pertaining to under-development, in equity and so~ial 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 11 

injustice, and of the fact that, in order to attain an urgent and effective solution 
to all such problems, national measures as well as measures of co-operation at the 
international level should be adopted, 

Reaffirming the interdisciplinary and intersectoral nature and approach of 
the United Nations Environment Porgramme, and recognizing the benefits that the 
implementation of such an approach may provide for the solution of the problems 
of international co-operation on the environment that affect Member States, 
particularly developing countries, 

Taking note of the Cocoyoc Declaration, 5/ adopted at the symposium on patterns 
of resource use, environment and development strategies, held under the auspices 
of the United Nations Environment Programme and the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development, at Cocoyoc, Mexico, in October 1974, 

Having considered the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme on the work of its second session 6/ and being convinced of 
the need to continue to strengthen the Programme's activities and its co-ordinating 
.functions, 

1. Notes with satisfaction the report of the Governing Council of the 
United Nations Environment Programme on the work of its second session and the 
adopted work programme of the Governing Council; 

2. Requests the United Nations Environment Programme: 

(a) To conduct its activities, in its field of competence, in line with the 
Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishmeno of a New International 
Economic Order; 

(b) To adopt medsures for intensifying efforts to facilitate the participation 
of institutions of developing countries in the preparation, development and 
implementation of the activities of the Programme; 

3. Requests the Governing CounciJ of the United Nations Environment Programme, 
taking fully into account the permanent sovereignty of States over their natural 
resources and on the basis of close co-operation and continuous consultations with 
all States: 

(a) To ensure that, in the design, implementation and development of the 
Global Environment Monitoring System, on the basis of voluntary participation of 
Member States, its objective of detecting, with enough anticipation, impending 
changes, whether man-made or natural, occurring in any part of the environment and 
threatening to cause significant damage to man's well-being is fully taken into 
account, in order to provide Governments with a basis for immediate preventive 
action; 

'2) A/C.2/292. 

6/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, Supplement 
No. 25 (A/9625). 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 12 

(b) To give attention, when considering the report on the International 
Referral System to be submitted to it by the Executive Director of the United 
Nations Environment Programme at its third session, to the needs particularly of 
developing countries for information on the environment and, ·in particular, to 
such needs of countries affected by problems of degradation and depletion of their 
natural resources with respect to which the timely exchange and provision of 
adequate information, through the International Referral System, would facilitate 
the adoption of measures for their solution; 

4. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment 
Programme, in keeping with the goals and objectives of the Programme: 

(a) To prepare a report on the environmental impact resulting from the 
irrational and wasteful use of natural resources, as reflected in the current 
methods and forms of production and consumption, and to present it to the Governing 
Council of the United Nations Environment Programme at its fourth session; 

(b) To prepare the new formulation of the programme activities in the 
priority subject area of trade, economics, technology and transfer of technology, 
which is to be submitted to the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment 
Programme at its third session, by bringing these activities into line with the 
Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International 
Economic Order, in its field of competence; 

(c) To prepare, in consultation with other organizations of the United Nations 
system, a study to include recommendations for putting into practice, at the 
earliest possible time, the concept of ecodevelopment as a planning method enabling 
developing countries to achieve accelerated and self-sustained development, taking 
into account, inter alia, their economic, political, social, geographical, 
ecological and regional conditions·, for submission to the Governing Council of the 
United Nations Environment Programme at its fourth session; 

(d) To draw the attention of Governments to the "catalytic role" of the 
programme, approved at the second session of the Governing Council, II as an 
effective means for the United Nations Environment Programme to provide adequate 
solutions, particularly in the short term, to problems affecting a country or 
group of countries of one region or of different regions, and to submit a report 
to the Governing Council at its fourth session on the problems with respect to 
which this role could be utilized, principally for the benefit of developing 
countries; 

(e) To accelerate consultations with the World Meteorological Organization 
with jurists, scientists and other experts with the purpose of developing a set 
of general principles and operative guidelines on studies for man-induced weather 
modification and related environmental phenomena, including their operational 
and research aspects, and to report to the Governing Council on the subject at 
its fourth session; 

II Ibid., annex I, decision 5 (II) of 21 March 1974. 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 13 

(f) To submit to the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment 
Programme, at its third session, a preliminary report on the legal aspects to 
which the organizations in the United Nations system have given attention, within 
the framework of their activities, and which may cont~ibute to the identification, 
formulation and development of principles of international environmental law; 

(g) To give equal priority in the implementation and development of the 
Global Environment Monitoring System to those environmental parameters different 
from pollutants which will facilitate the solution or prevention of environmental 
problems that affect or may affect principally developing countries; 

(h) To bring the International Referral System to the attention of Member 
States as a means of the Programme for tlie timely exchange and provision of 
information among themselves, or with intergovernmental and private organizations, 
for the solution of environmental problems affecting them; 

(i) To consult the Governments of developing countries on the problems and 
matters related to the environment on which they would be interested in receiving 
training and technical assistance, and to submit a report, with the replies 
received, to the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme at 
its fourth session, together with a summary of the experience achieved thus far 
in this area, in order to formulate a training and assistance programme based on 
the specific needs of that group of countries; 

5. Reaffirms the importance of co-ordination and active co-operation 
between the United Nations Environment Programme, the specialized agencies, the 
International Atomic Energy Agency and other organizations of the United Nations 
system in their activities in order to ensure effective attention and action with 
regard to the environmental needs and problems of Member States, especially 
developing countries, as requested by them. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION III 

Establishment of a United Nations Habitat and 
Human Settlements Foundation 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 2999 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972 in which it endorsed 
in principle the establishment of an international fund or financial institution 
for the purpose envisaged in recommendation 17 of the Action Plan for the Human 
Environment, 

Taking note with appreciation of the Secretary-General's report on the 
establishment of an international fund or financial institution for human 
settlements, §! 

§/ A/9575. 
I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 14 

Noting decision 16 (II) of the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme of 21 March 1974 2/ in which the Governing Council 
recommended to the General Assembly the establishment of a voluntary international 
habitat and human settlements foundation as from l January 1975, 

Noting also Economic and Social Council resolution 1882 (LVII) of 
31 July 1974, in which the Council recommended that the General Assembly should 
establish an international institution for human habitat management and 
environmental design and improvement of human settlements, to be called the 
International Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, and that the Foundation 
should be established in accordance with decision 16 (II) of the Governing Council 
of the United Nations Environment Programme, 

Decides that an international institution for human habitat management and 
environmental design and improvement of human settlements, to be called the United 
Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, be established as from 
l January 1975 in accordance with the operative paragraphs of decision 16 A (II) 
of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme, which is 
reproduced in the annex to the present resolution. 

ANNEX 

Operative paragraphs of decision 16 A (II) of the Governing 
Council of the United Nations Environment Programme 

l. pecides that a voluntary International Habitat and Human Settlements 
Foundation be established as from l January 1975 in accordance with the provisions 
set forth below: 

(~) The primary operative objective of the Foundation will be to assist in 
strengthening national environmental programmes relating to human settlements, 
particularly in the developing countries, through the provision of seed capital 
and the extension of the necessary technical and financial assistance to permit an 
effective mobilization of domestic resources for human habitat and environmental 
design and improvement of human settlements, including: 

(i) Stimulating innovative approaches to pre-investment, pre-project and 
financing strategies of human settlements activities, while drawing on 
the accumulated practical experience of both the public and private 
sectors for mobilization of financial resources for human habitat and 
human settlement projects; 

(ii) Organizing technical assistance services in human settlements and human 
habitat management, including training facilities and human habitat 
projects; 

9/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. 25 (A/9625), annex I. 

I . .. 



A/9961 
English 
Page 15 

(iii) Promoting the adaptation and transfer of appropriate scientific and 
technical knowledge on human settlements projects; 

(~) Under the authority and guidance of the Governing Council of the United 
Nations Environment Programme, the Executive Director of the Programme shall be 
responsible for administering the Foundation and providing the technical and 
financial services related to that institution; 

(£) The Executive Director is instructed to prepare a plan and programme of 
operations for the Foundation, for approval by the Governing Council at its third 
session, which reflect the primary operative objectives of subparagraph {a) above); 

(~) The Foundation will be initiated on 1 January 1975, by a single 
allocation of $4 million over four years from the Fund of the United Nations 
Environment Programme, for purposes of seed capital and technica2. assistance, as 
envisaged in General Assembly resolution 2999 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972 and for 
the operative objectives outlined in subparagraph (a) above; 

(~) The Executive Director will undertake the establishment of programmes, 
guidelines and directives, in connexion with investments for the environmental 
design and improvement of the human habitat and settlements, in both urban and 
rural areas; 

(f) The Executive Director will undertake to seek the co-operation and 
support of financial institutions in developed and developing countries, in 
fulfilment of the objectives of the Foundation; 

(~) In addition to operational projects undertaken by the Foundation, the 
United Nations Environment Programme shall have, under its programme priority 
area on human settlements, human health, habitat and well-being, continuing 
financial involvement in research, technical assistance, training and demonstration 
projects; 

2. Invites the active participation and collaboration of the agencies and 
bodies within the United Nations system, as well as of regional financial and 
technical institutions, in the activities of the Foundation, particularly with 
regard to seed capital and the financing of operational human settlements projects, 
bearing in mind General Assembly resolutions 2998 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972 and 
3130 (XXVIII) of 13 December 1973; 

3. Authorizes the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment 
Programme to launch an international fund-raising appeal for a maximum funding of 
the Foundation; 

4. Notes 
the Centre for 
Social Affairs 
system. 

that due regard must be had for the operations and activities of 
Housing, Building and Planning of the Department of Economic and 
in order to avoid duplication of effort within the United Nations 




