








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 31 

Distr. 

• 
GENERAL 

A/9905 
5 December 

ORIGINAL: 

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE INDIAN OCEJU~ 
AS A ZONE OF PEACE 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Antonio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

1974 

ENGLISH 

l. The item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a 
Zone of Peace: report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean 11 was included 
by the Secretary-General in the provisional agenda of the twenty-ninth session on 
the basis of General Assembly resolution 3080 (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973, 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in 
the agenda and to allocate it to the First ConMittee for consideration and report, 

3, At its 1987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided to have 
a combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament 
and the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely: 

Item 24: Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of 
the Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the 
funds thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries, 

Item 27: Napalm and other incendiary weapons and all aspects of their 
possible use. 

Item 28: Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons. 

Item 29: Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban. 

Item 30: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3079 (XXVIII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear 1-Teapons in Latin 
America (Treaty of Tlatlelolco). 

74-34443 / •.• 



A/9905 
English 
Page 2 

Item 31: Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a 
Zone of Peace. 

Item 34: World Disarmament Conference. 

Item 35: General and complete disarmament. 

Item 100: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 101: Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East • 

Item 103: Prohibition of action to influence the environment and climate 
for military and other purposes incompatible with the maintenance 
of international security, human well-being and health. 

Item 107: Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in 
South Asia, 

4. The general debate on these items took place at the 1998th to 2016th meetings, 
from 21 October to 11 November. 

5. nbe First Committee had before it, in connexion with agenda item 31, the 
following documents: 

(a) Letter dated 11 March 1974 from the Permanent Representative of 
Madagascar to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9585); 

(b) Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean; y 

(c) Addendum to that report, gj containing the text of a draft resolution 
whlch the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean recommended unanimously for 
adoption by the General Assembly. 

6. At the 2015th meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Sri Lanka 
introduced the draft resolution recommended by the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian 
Ocean. 

7. On 12 November, the Secretary-General submitted a statement (A/C.l/L.689) on 
the administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution. 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Suppl;ment No. 29 (A/9629). 

g/ A/9629/Add.l, 

I ... 



A/9905 
English 
Page 3 

8. At its 2019th meeting, on 14 November, the First Committee adopted the draft 
resolution by 79 votes to no~e, with 27 abstentions (see para. 11 below, 
draft resolution A). 

9. On 20 November, Mauritius submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.699) by which 
the composition of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean would be enlarged by 
the addition of no. more than three Member States. In introducing the draft 
resolution at the 2025th meeting, on the same day, the representative of Mauritius 
stated that the draft resolution would be put to the vote in the First Committee 
with the understanding that the names of the new members to serve on the 
Ad Hoc Committee would be designated by the Chairman of the First Committee and 
would be communicated by him to the President of the General Assembly before the 
draft resolution was put to the vote in plenary, and that this decision should be 
recorded in the report of the First Committee to the Assembly. 

10. At the 2026th meeting, on 21 November, the draft resolution was adopted 
without a vote (see para. 11 below, draft resolution B). 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

11. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean 
as a Zone of Peace 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace, contained 
in resolution 2832 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, and recalling also General Assembly 
resolutions 2992 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972 and 3080 (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973, 

Firmly convinced that further and continuous efforts are required to fulfil 
the objectives of the Declaration, and thus to contribute to the strengthening of 
regional and international peace and security, 

Noting the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean, ]/ 

Further noting the factual statement of the great Powers' military presence 
in all its aspects, in the Indian Ocean, with special reference to their naval 
deployments, conceived in the context of great Power rivalry, L; prepared by the 
Secretary-General with the assistance of qualified experts pursuant to General 
Assembly resolution 3080 (XXVIII), 

3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Suppl~ment No~ 29 (A/9629 and Add.l). 

~/ A/AC.l59/l/Rev.l. 

I . .. 



A/9905 
English 
Page 4 

Deeply concerned that the competitive expansion of the military presence 
of the great Powers in the Indian Ocean would constitute a serious intensification 
of the arms race, leading to an increase of tension in the area, 

Considering that the creation of a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean 
requires: 

(a) The elimination of all manifestations of great Power military presence 
in the region conceived in the context of great Power rivalry, 

(b) Co-operation among the regional States to ensure conditions of security 
within the region as envisaged in the Declaration, 

Further believing that for the realization of the objective of the 
Declaration it is necessary that the great Powers enter into immediate 
consultations with the States concerned, with a view to adopting positive measures 
for the elimination of all foreign bases and of all manifestations of great Power 
military presence in the region conceived in the context of great Power rivalry, 

1. Urges the littoral and hinterland States of the Indian Ocean, the 
permanent members of the Security Council and other major maritime users of the 
Indian Ocean to give tangible support to the establishment and preservation of the 
Indian ·ocean as a zone of peace; 

2. Calls upon the great 
their military presence in the 
step towards the relaxation of 
the area; 

Powers to refrain from increasing and strengthening 
region of the Indian Ocean as an essential first 
tension and the promotion of peace and security in 

I 

3. Endorses the recommendations for the future work of the Ad Hoc Committee 
on the Indian Ocean, as contained in paragraph 35 of the report of the 
Committee; 2_! 

4. Requests the littoral and hinterland States of the Indian Ocean to 
enter, as soon as possible, into consultations with a view to convening a 
conference on the Indian Ocean; 

5. Invites all States, especially the great Powers, to co-operate in a 
practical manner with the Ad Hoc Committee in the discharge of its functions; 

6. Expresses its thanks to the Secretary-General for his efforts in the 
preparation of the factual statement of the great Powers' military presence in 
the Indian Ocean; 

7. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to continue its work and consultations 
in accordance with its mandate and to report to the General Assembly at its 
thirtieth session; 

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. 29 (A/9629). 



A/9905 
English 
Page 5 

8. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue to render all necessary 
assistance to the Ad Hoc Committee. 

B 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 2992 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972 by which it 
decided to establish an Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean consisting of no 
more than 15 members, 

Noting that some littoral and hinterland States of the Indian Ocean have 
expressed deep interest in becoming members of the Ad Hoc Committee in view of 
their geographical position and adherence to the concept of the Indian Ocean as 
a zone of peace, 

Noting further that since the establishment of the Ad Hoc Committee new 
States have been admitted to membe~hip in the United Nations, 

Recognizing that the establishment and preservation of the Indian Ocean as 
a zone of peace is a matter that concerns all littoral and hinterland States, 

Decides to enlarge the composition of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian 
Ocean by the addition of no more than three Member States. 

• 




