
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9946·~ ,I 
9 December 1974 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 48 

CHARTER OF ECONOMIC RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF STATES 

Report of the Second Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Luis LASCARRO (Colombia) 

1. The General Assembly, at its 2237th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, 
allocated to the Second Committee agenda item 48, entitled '!Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States". 

2. The Second Committee considered this item in the context of its general debate 
at its l587th to 1598th and 1600th and 160lst meetings, between 23 September and 
8 October 1974. The Committee resumed its consideration of the item at its 1638th 
to 1644th and 1647th to 165lst meetings, on 25, 27, 28 November and between 2 and 
9 December 1974. An account of the discussions of the Committee on the item is 
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.2/SR.l587-1598, 1600, 1601, 
1638-1644 and 1647-1651), 

3. For the consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the report of 
the Trade and Development Board on the first part of its fourteenth session, !/ 
and the report of the Working Group on the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of 
States on its third and fourth sessions (TD/B/AC.l2/3 and TD/B/AC.l2/4). 

4. At the 1638th meeting, on 25 November, the Chairman of the Working Group of 
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on the Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States, made a statement, in which he introduced the report 
of the Working Group (TD/B/AC.l2/3 and TD/B/AC.l2/4). 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session, 
Supplement No. 15 (A/9615). 

74-35093 / ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 2 

5. At. the l639th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Mexico, on behalf 
of Afghanistan., Algeria., Argentina, Bahrain, Bahamas, Bangladesh~ Barbados 5 Bhutan,. 
Bolivia, Botswana, Burma~ Burunili·~ the Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, 
the Conv,o, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, 
the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, 
Fiji, Gabon 5 Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea~ Guinea-Bissau, Guyan~5 
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, 
the Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, the Libyan Arab 
Republic, Hadagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, the Hal dives, Mali Mauritania, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua., the Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan j Panama, 
Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates, the United 
Republic of Cameroon, the United Republic of Tanzania, the Upper Volta, Uruguay, 
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia, gj introduced a draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l386), entitled "Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States"', the 
text of which read as follows: 

Recalling that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in its 
resolution 45 (III) of 18 May 1972, stressed the urgency "to establish generally 
accepted norms to govern international economic relations systematically" and 
recognized that "it is not feasible to establish a just order and a stable world as 
long as the Charter to protect the rights of all countries, and in particular the 
developing States, is not formulated", 

Recalling further that in the same resolution it was decided to establish a 
\-larking Group of governmental representatives to draw up a draft Charter of 
Economic Rights and Duties of States, which the General Assembly, in its 
resolution 3037 (XXVII) of 19 December 1972, decided should be composed of 
40 Member States, 

gj The draft resolution contained a foot-note which read as follows: 
11 T'ne sponsorship of this draft resolution does not preclude in any manner 

the forr.:mlation by the sponsors of interpretative declarations as to the scope 
they recognize to certain provisions of the Charter of Econo~ic Rights and 
Duties of States. 11 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 3 

Noting that in its resolution 3082 (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973, it reaffirmed 
''its conviction of the urgent need to establish or improve norms of universal 
application for the develoPment of international economic relations on a just and 
equitable basis" and urged~ the \·larking Group on the Charter of Economic Rights and 
Duties of States ;;to complete, as the first step, in the codification and 
development of the matter, the elaboration of a final draft Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States, to be considered and anprov"d by the General Assembly 
at its twenty-ninth session 11 , 

Bearing in mind the snirit and terms of its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 
3202 (S-VI) on the Establi;hment of a New International Economic Order, which 
underlined the "vital importance" of the Charter being adopted by the General 
Assembly at its twenty-ninth session and stressed the fact that the Charter "shall 
constitute an effective instrument towards the establishment of a new system of 
international economic relations based on equity, sovereign equality, and 
interdependence of the interests of developed and developing countries", 

Having examined the report of the 1-lorking Group on the Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States on its fourth session (TD/B/AC.l2/4), transmitted to 
the General Assembly by the Trade and Development Board at its fourteenth session, 

Expressing its appreciation to the ]./orking Group on the Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States which, as a result of the task performed in its four 
sessions held between February 1973 and June 1974, assembled the elements required 
for the completion and adoption of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of 
States at the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly, as previously 
recom.mended, 

Adopts and solemnly proclaims the following: 

CHARTER OF ECONOMIC RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF STATES 

PREAI1BLE 

Reaffirming the fundamental purposes of the United Nations, in particular, 
the maintenance of international peace and security, the development of friendly 
relations among nations and the achievement of international co-operation in 
solving international problems in the economic and social fields, 

Affirming the need for strengi:;hening international co-operation in these 
fields, 

Reaffirming further the need for strengthening international co-operation 
for development, 

Declaring that it is a fundamental purpose of this Charter to codify and 
develop rules for the establishment of the new international economic order, based 
on equity, sovereign equality, interdependence, common interest and co-operation 
among all States, irrespective of their economic and social systems, 

/ ... 



A/')946 
English 
Page 4 

Desirous of contributing to the creation of conditions for: 

(a) The attainment of wider prosperity among all countries and of higher 
standards of living for all peoples; 

(b) The promotion by the entire international community of economic and 
social progress of all countries, especially developing countries; 

(c) The encouragement of co-operation, on the basis of mutual advantage and 
·equitable benefits for all peace-loving States which are willing to carry out their 
obligations under this Charter, in the economic, trade, scientific and technical 
fields, regardless of political, economic or social systems; 

(d) The overcoming of rna1n obstacles in the way of economic development of 
the developing countries; 

(e) The acceleration of the economic growth of developing countries with a 
view to bridging the economic gap between developing and developed countries, 

(f) The protection, preservation and enhancement of the environment, 

Mindful of the need to establish and maintain a just and equitable economic 
and social order through: 

(a) The achievement of more rational and equitable international economic 
relations and the encouragement of structural changes in the world economy; 

(b) The creation of conditions which permit the further expansion of trade 
and intensification of economic co-operation among all nations; 

(c) The strengthening of the economic independence of developing countries; 

(d) The establishment and promotion of international economic relations 
taking into account the agreed differences in development of the developing 
countries and their specific needs. 

Determined to promote collective economic security for development, in 
particular of the developing countries, with strict respect for the sovereign 
equality of each State and through the co-operation of the entire international 
community, 

Considering that genuine co-operation arrDng States, based on joint 
consideration of and concerted action regarding international economic problems, 
is essential for fulfilling the international community's common desire to achieve 
a just and rational development of all parts of the world, 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 5 

Stressing the importance of ensuring appropriate conditions for the conduct 
of normal economic relations among all States, irrespective of differences in 
social and economic systems, and for the full respect for the rights of all 
peoples, as well as the strengthening of instruments of international economic 
co-operation as meane for the consolidation of peace for the benefit of all, 

Convinced of the need to develop a system of international economic relations 
on the basis of sovereign equality, mutual and equitable benefit and the close 
interrelationship of the interests of all States, 

Reiterating that the responsibility for the development of every country rests 
primarily upon itself but that concomitant and effective international co-operation 
is an essential factor for the full achievement of its own development goals, 

Firmly convinced of the urgent need to evolve a substantially improved system 
of international economic relations, 

The General Assembly solemnly adopts the present Charter of Economic Rights 
and Duties of States as a first step in the codification and progressive 
development of this subject: 

CHAPTER I 

Fundamentals of international economic relations 

Economic as well as political and other relations among States shall be 
governed inter alia by the following principles: 

(a) Sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States; 

(b) Sovereign equality of all States; 

(c) Non-aggression; 

(d) Non·- intervention; 

(e) Mutual and equitable benefit; 

(f) Peaceful coexistence; 

(g) Equal rights and self-determination of peoples; 

(h) Peaceful settlement of disputes; 

(i) Remedying of injustices which have been brought about by force and which 
deprive a nation of the natural means necessary for its normal development; 

(j) Fulfilment in good faith of international obligations; 

I . .. 



A/99l~6 
:Cnglish 
Page G 

(k) Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; 

(l) No attempt to seek hegemony and spheres of influence; 

(m) Promotion of international social justice; 

(n) International co-operation for development; 

(o) Free access to and from the sea by land-locked countries within the 
framework of the above principles. 

CRI\FTER II 

Economic rights and duties of States 

Article l 

Every State has the sovereign and inalienable right to choose its economic 
system as well as its nolitical, social and cultural systems in accordance with 
the will of its people, without outside interference, coercion or threat in any 
form whatsoever. 

Article 2 

1. Every State has and 
including possession) use and 
and economic activities. 

shall freely exercise full permanent sovereignty, 
disposal, over all its wealth, natural resources 

2. Each State has the right: 

(a) To regulate and exercise authority over foreign investment within its 
national jurisdiction in accordance with its laws and regulations and in conformity 
with its national objectives and priorities. No State •,rhose nationals invest in 
a foreign country shall demand privileged treatment for such investors; 

(b) To regulate and supervise the activities of transnational corporations 
within its national jurisdiction and take measures to ensure that such activities 
comply with its laws, rules and regulations and conform with its economic and 
social policies. Transnational corporations shall not intervene in the internal 
affairs of a host State. Every State should, with full regard for its sovereign 
rights, CO··operate with other States in the exercise of the right set forth in 
this subparagraph; 

(c) 1'o nationalize, expropriate or transfer ownership of foreign property 
in which case appropriate compensation should be paid by the State taking such 
measures, provided that all relevant circumstances call for it. In any case wher= 
the question of compensation gives rise to a controversy, it shall be settled unJer 
the domestic law of the nationalizing State and by its tribunals, unless it is 

/ .... 



A/9946 
En[llish 
Page 7 

freely and mutually agreed by all States concerned that other peaceful means be 
sought on the basis of the sovereign equality of States and in accordance with 
the principle of free choice of means. 

Article 3 

In the exploitation of natural resources shared by two or more countries, 
each State must co-operate on the basis of a system of information and prior 
consultations in order to achieve optimum use of such resources without causing 
damage to the legitimate interest of others. 

Article 4 

Every State has the right to engage in international trade and other forms of 
economic co-operation irrespective of any differences in political, economic and 
social systems. No State shall be subjected to discrimination of any kind based 
solely on such differences. In the pursuit of international trade and other forms 
of economic co-operation, every State is free to choose the forms of organization 
of its foreign economic relations and to enter into bilateral ~~d multilateral 
arrangements consistent with its international obligations and with the needs of 
international economic co-operation. 

Article 5 

All States have the right to associate in organizations of primary commodity 
producers in order to develop their national economies to achieve stable financing 
for their development, and in pursuance of their aims assisting in the promotion 
of sustained growth of the world economy, in particular accelerating the 
development of developing countries. Correspondingly all States have the duty to 
respect that right by refraining from applying economic and political measures 
that would limit it. 

Article 6 

It is the duty of States to contribute to the development of international 
trade of goods particularly by means of arrangements where appropriate and taking 
into account the interests of producers and consumers. All States share the 
responsibility to promote the regular flow and access of all commercial goods 
traded at stable, remunerative and equitable prices, thus contributing to the 
equitable development of the world economy, taking into account, in particular, 
the interests of developing countries. 

Article 7 

Every State has the primary responsibility to promote the economic, social 
and cultural development of its people. 'I'o this end, each State has the right and 
the responsibility to choose its means and goals of development, fully to mobilize 

/ ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 8 

and use its resources, to implement progressive economic and social reforms and to 
ensure the full participation of its people in the process and benefits of 
developljlent. All States have the duty, individually and collectively, to 
co-operate in order to eliminate obstacles that hinder such mobilization and use. 

Article 8 

States should co-operate in facilitating more rational and equitable 
international economic relations and in encouraging structural changes in the 
context of a balanced <Wrld economy in harmony with the needs and interests of all 
countries, especifl,lly developing countries, and should take appropriate measures 
to this end. 

All States have the responsibility to co-operate in the economic, social, 
cultural, scientific and technological fields for the promotion of economic and 
social progress throur:hout the world, especially that of the developing countries. 

Article 10 

All States are juridically equal and, as equal members of the international 
community, have the right to participate fully and effectively in the international 
decision--making process in the solution of world economic, financial and monetary 
problems, inter alia, through the appr0priate international organizations in 
accordance with their existing and evolving rules, and to share equitably in the 
benefits resulting therefrol'l. 

Article 11 

All States should co-operate to strengthen and continuously improve the 
efficiency of international organizations in implementing measures to stimulate 
the general economic progress of all countries, particularly of developing 
countries, and therefore should co-operate to adapt them, when appropriate, to the 
changing needs of international economic co-,operation. 

Article 12 -------
1. States have the right 

5 
in agreement with the parties concerned, to 

particigate in subregional, regional and interregional co-operation in the pursuit 
of their economic and social development. All States engaged in such co-operation 
have the duty to ensure that the policies of those groupings to which they belong 
correspond to the provisions of the Charter and are oub·rard-looking, consistent 
vlitb their international obligations and ·with the needs of international economic 
co-operation and have full regard for the legitimate interests of third countries, 
e3pecially developinf! cou_ntries. 

I . .. 



A~/9946 
English 
Page 9 

2. In the case of p;roupings to <rhich the States concerned have transferred or 
may transfer certain competences as regards matters that come within the scope of 
this Charter, those States shall ensure, in regard to such matters, that the 
groupings in which they participate act in a manner consistent with their 
responsibilities as members of such groupings and in accordance with the provisions 
of this Charter. 

Article 13 

1. Every State haR the right to benefit from the advances and developments 
in science and technology for the acceleration of its economic and social 
development. 

2. All States should promote international scientific and technological 
·co-operation and the transfer of technology, with proper regard for all legitimate 
interests including, inter alia, the rights and duties of holders, suppliers and 
recipients of technology. In particular, all States should facilitate: the 
access of developing countries to the achievements of modern science and technology, 
the transfer of technology and the creation of indigenous technology for the 
benefit of the developing countries in forms and in accordance with procedures 
which are suited to their economies and their needs. 

3. Accordingly, developed countries should co-operate with the developing 
countries in the establishment, strengthening and development of their scientific 
and technological. infrastructures and their scientific research and technological 
activities so as to help to expand and transform the economies of developing 
countries .. 

4. All States should co-operate in exploring with a view to evolving further 
i-nternationally accepted guidelines or regulations for the transfer of technology 
taking fully into account the interests of C.eveloping countries. 

Article 14 

Every .State has the duty to co-operate in proreoting a steady and increasing 
expansion and liberalization of •wrld trade and an iw1rovement in the welfare and 
living standards of all peoples, in particular tlnse of developing countries. 
Accordingly, all States should co.-operate, iJCter ali. a, towards the progressive 
dismantling of obstacles to trade and the improve;;:;;,:;t~ of the international 
framework for the conduct of world trade and, to these ends, co-ordinated efforts 
shall be made to solve in an equitable way the trade problems of all countries 
taking into account the speci fie trade nroblems of the developing countries. In 
this connexion, States shall take measures aimed at securing additional benefits 
for the international trade of devel.opin~: countries so as to achieve a substantial 
increase in their foreign exchange earnings, the diversification of their exports, 
the acceleration of the rate of growth of their trade, taking into account their 
development needs, an improvement in the possibilities for these countries to 
participate in the expansion of world trade and a balance more favourable to 
developing countries in the sharing of the advantages resulting from this expansioH, 

I . .. 



1'./994G 
Ene:lish 
Par;e 10 

through, in the largest possible measure, a substantial improvement in the 
conditions of access for the products of interest to the developing countries 
and, t<herever appropriate, measures designed to attain stable, equitable and 
remunerative prices for primary products. 

Article 15 

All States have the duty to promote the achievement of general and complete 
disarmament under effective international control and to utilize the resources 
freed by effective disarmament measures for the economic and social development 
of countries, allocating a substantial portion of such resources as additional 
means for the development needs of developing countries. 

Article 16 

l. It is the right and duty of all States, individually and collectively, 
to eliminate colonialism, apartheid, racial discrimination, neo-colonialism and 
all forms of foreign aggression, occupation and domination, and the economic and 
social consequences thereof, as a prerequisite for development. States which 
practice such coercive policies are economically responsible to the countries, 
territories and peoples affected for the restitution and full compensation for the 
exploitation and depletion of, and damages to, the natural and all other resources 
of those countries, territories and peoples. It is the duty of all States to 
extend assistance to them. 

2. No State has the right to promote or encourage investments that may 
constitute an obstacle to the liberation of a territory occupied by force. 

Article 17 

International co-operation for development is the shared goal and common duty 
of all States. Every State should co-operate with the efforts of developing 
countries to accelerate their economic and social development by providing 
favourable external conditions and by extending active assistance to them, 
consistent with their development needs and objectives, with strict respect for 
the sovereign equality of States and free of any conditions derogating fran their 
sovereignty. 

Article 18 

Developed countries should extend, improve and enlarge the system of 
generalized non-reciprocal and non-discriminatory tariff preferences to the 
developing countries consistent with the relevant agreed conclusions and relevant 
decisions as adopted on this subject, in the framework of the competent 
international organizations. Developed countries should also give serious 
consideration to the adoption of other differential measures, in areas where this 
is feasible a.'1d appropriate and in ways which will provide special and more 

I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page ll 

favourable treatment, in order to meet trade and develo~flent needs of the 
developing countries. In the conduct of international economic relations the 
developed countries should endeavour to avoid measures having a negative effect 
on the development of the national economies of the developing countries, as 
promoted by ~eneralized tariff preferences and other generally agreed differential 
measures in their favour~ 

Article 19 

\lith a view to accelerating the economic growth of developing countries and 
bridging the economic gap between developed and developing countries, developed 
countries should grant generalized preferential, non--reciprocal and 
non-discriminatory treatment to developing countries in those fields of 
international economic co-operation where it may be feasible. 

Article 20 

Developing countries should, in their efforts to increase their over-all 
trade, give due attention to the possibility of expanding their trade with 
socialist countries, by granting to these countries conditions for trade no~ 
inferior to those granted normally to the developed market economy countries. 

Article 21 

Developing countries should endeavour to promote the expansion of their 
mutual trade and to this end, may, in accordance ''i th the existing and evolving 
provisions and procedures of international agreements where applicable, grant 
trade preferences to other developing countries without being obliged to extend 
such preferences to developed cocllltries, provided these arrangements do.not 
constitute an impediment to general trade liberalization and expansion. 

Article 22 

l. All States should respond to the generally recognized or mutually 
agreed development needs and objectives of developing countries by promoting 
increased net flows of real resources to the developing countries from all sources, 
taking into account any obligations and commitments undertaken by the States 
concerned, in order to reinforce the efforts of developing countries to accelerate 
their economic and social development. 

2. In this context, consistent with the aims and objectives mentioned above 
and taking into account any obligations and commitments undertake;: in this regard, 
it should be their endeavour to increase the net ar1ount of financi2l flows from 
official sources to developing countries and to improve the terms and conditions. 

3. The flow of development assistance resources should include economic 
and technical assistance. 

I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 12 

Article 23 

To enhance the effective mobilization of their mm resources, the developing 
countries should strengthen their economic co-operation and expand their mutual 
trade so as to accelerate their economic and social development. All countries, 
especially developed countries, individually as well as through the competent 
international organizations of which they are members, should provide appropriate 
and effective support and co-operation. 

Article 24 

All States have the duty to conduct their mutual economic relations in a 
manner which takes into account the interests of other countries. In particular, 
all States should avoid prejudicing the interests of developing countries. 

Article 25 

In furtherance of world economic development, the international community, 
especially its developed members, shall pay special attention to the particular 
needs and problems of the least develoned among the developing countries, of 
land·· locked developing countries and also island developing countries, with a 
view to helping them to overcome their particular difficulties and thus contribute 
to their economic and social development. 

Article 26 ------

All States have the duty to coexist in tolerance and live together in peace, 
irrespective of differences in political, economic, social and cultural systems, 
and to fac1litate trade between States having different economic and social 
systems. International trade should be conducted without prejudice to generalized 
non-discriminatory and non-reciprocal preferences in favour of developing 
countries, on the basis of mutual advantage, equitable benefits and the exchange 
of most-favoured-nation treatment. 

Article 27 

1. Every State has the right to fully enjoy the benefits of world invisible 
trade and to engage in the expansion of such trade. 

2. \·lorld invisible trade, based on efficiency and mutual and eauitable 
benefit, furthering the expansion of the world economy, is the corr@on goal of 
all States. The role of developing countries in world invisible trade should be 
enhanced and strengthened consistent with the above objectives, particular 
attention being paid to the special needs of developing countries. 

3. All States should co-operate \lith developing countries in their 
endeavours to increase their cap~city to earn foreic;n exchange frorD_ invisible 
transactions, in accordance with the potential and needs of each developing 
country, and consistent with the objectives mentioned above. 

I . .. 



Article 28 

A/9946 
English 
Page 13 

All States have the duty to co-operate in achieving ad,justments in the prices 
of exports of developing countries in relation to prices of their imports so as 
to promote just and equitable terms of trade for them, in a manner which is 
remunerative for producers and equitable for producers and consumers. 

CHAPTER III 

Cowman responsibilities towards the international community 

Article 29 

The sea-bed and ocean floor and the subsoil thereof, beyond the limits of 
national jurisdiction, as ><ell as the resources of the area, are the common 
heritage of mankind. On the basis of the principles adopted by the General 
Assembly in resolution 2749 (XXV) of 17 December 1970, all States shall ensure 
that the exploration of the area and exploitation of its resources are carried out 
exclusively for peaceful purposes and that the benefits derived therefrom are 
shared equitably by all States, t~~ing into account the particular interests and 
needs of developing countries; an international regime applying to the area and 
its resources and including appropriate international machinery to give effect to 
its provisions shall be established by an international treaty of a universal 
character, generally agreed upon. 

Article 30 

The protection, preservation and the enhancement of the environment for the 
present and fUture generations is the responsibility of all· States. All States 
shall endeavour to establish their ·mm environmental and developmental policies 
in conformity with such responsibility. The environmental policies of all States 
should enhance and not adversely affect the uresent .and future development 
potential of developing countries. All States have the responsibility to ensure 
that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the 
environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. 
All St'ates should co-operate in evolving international norms and regulations in 
the fields of the environment. 

CHAPTER IV 

Final provisions 

Article 31 

All States have the duty to contribute to the balanced expansion of the world 
economy, taking duly into account the close interrelationship between the 
well-being of the developed countries and the growth and development of the 

I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 14 

developing countries and that the prosperity of the international community as a 
>rhole depends upon the prosperity of its constituent parts. 

Article 32 

!To State may use or encourage the use of economic, political or any other 
type of measures to coerce another State in order to obtain from it the 
subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights or to secure from it 
advantages of any kind, 

Article 33 

l. Nothing in the present Charter shall be construed as impairing or 
derogating from the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations or actions 
taken in pursuance thereof. 

2. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of the present 
Charter are interrelated and each provision should be construed in the context 
of the other provisions .. 

Article ]4 

An item on the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States shall be . 
inscribed on the agenda of the General Assembly at its thirtieth session, and 
thereafter on the agenda of every fifth session. In this >ray a systematic and 
comprehensive consideration of the implementation of the Charter, covering both 
progress achieved and any improvements and additions which might become necessary~ 
>rould be carried out and appropriate measures recommended. Such consideration 
should take into account the evolution of all the economic, social, legal and 
other factors related to the principles upon which the present Charter is based 
and on its purpose. 

f3ubGeq_ue:"ntJ y) Afp:hanistan, Barbados., Bhutan, Chile, Ethiopia 5 l1alawi and Paraguay 
1eithdre1-r from tl1~"ii~t -of sp;-;nsors -of-the draftresolution (A/C.2/L.l386/Corr.l-5) 
O¥.ring to their reservations to specific articles of the Charter. 

6. The Committee also had before it the following amendments to draft 
resolution A/C.2/L.l386: 

(a) f\mendn,_ents submitted by Au~tra~~_§:._, Bel8_~UI'1_ 9 Can a~, De_~!l]--~_!:_ls_~ France, 
.Q_errnany (Federal Hcpublic of), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxel",bourg, the United Kingdom 
of Great -BY'i taf~lli~d -Ii~rth~n-; I~el~nd-Und the U~lt-;d sta~OflUnerica 
fftJc.-2h,.-i39S); 1~hTch c-alled f~ the -rewordincc of: 

( i) The fourth preambular paragraph, to read: 

"Declaring that it is a fundamental purpose of this Charter to 
promote just and equitable economic relations among nations," 

I . .. 



A/9946 
Enr:lish 
Pap-e 15 

(ii) The final preambular paragraph, to read: 

''The General Assembly solemnly adopts the present ('!carter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States:"; 

' (b) Amendment submitted by Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States 
of America (A/C.2/L.l399), which called for the rewording of subparagraph (c) of 
the fifth preambular paragraph as follows: 

"(c) The encouragement of co-operation, on the basis of mutual advantage 
and equitable benefits for all States concerned, in the economic, trade 9 
scientific and technical fields, regardless of political, economic or social 
systems; 11 ; 

(c) Amendment submitted by Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Greece. Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the United Kingao;;) of 
Great Britain and Nort~rn-lrel~nd the United States of America (A/C.2/L.l400), 
which called for the rewording of the seventh preambular paragraph as follows: 

"Determined to promote collective economic security, with full respect 
for the sovereign eQuality of each State and through the co-operation of each 
State, in order to provide a favourable environment for all countries to 
pursue their development and well-being;"; 

(d) Amendment submitted by Belgium, Franc~, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern ~nd and the United States of America (A/C.2/L.l40l), which called for 
the replacement ln the first sentence of Chapter I, of the word shall by "should"; 

(e) Amendment submitted by Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Pef!uhlic of), Greece~ Ireland, Italy, ,Tan an, Luxe:Plbourr-:, t11e Netherlands, .the United 
Kinf"dcm of Great Britain-and Northern Ireland-sr_d the United States of America 
(A/C. 2/L.l402), which called for the rewording of Chapter I (f) as follows: 

;
1Peaceful co-operation; 11 ; 

(f) Amendment submitted by Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Italy, Japan, LuxembO~theUnited Kingdom ·of Great Britain and -"· 
Northern.Ireland and the United States of America (A/C.2/L.l403), which called for 
the deletion of subparagraph (i) of chapter I; 

(g) Amendment submitted by Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Ireland, Italy~ Janan, Luxembourg, 
the Netherlands, the United Kingdom of ~:Sri~ an~thern Ireland and 
the United States" of America (A/C.2/L.l404), which called for the re•wrding of 
paragraphs l, 2 and 3 of article 2 of chapter II as follows: 

I ... 



A/991+6 
English 
Page 16 

"Chapter II 

Article 2 

1. Every State has permanent sovereignty over its natural wealth and 
resources and has the inalienable right fully and freely to dispose of them. 

2. Each State has the right: 

(a) To enact legislation and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent 
with its development objectives, to govern the entry and activities within its 
territory of foreign enterprises; 

(b) ~'o enter freely into undertakings relating to the import of foreign 
capital which shall be observed in good faith; 

(c) To regulate and supervise the activities of transnational 
corporations within its national jurisdiction and take measures to ensure that 
such activities comply fully with its laws, rules and regulations and conform 
with its economic and social policies. Every State shall ensure that 
transnational corporations enjoy within its national jurisdiction the same 
rights and fulfil the same obligations as any other foreign person. 
Transnational corporations shall not intervene in the internal affairs of a 
host State. Every State should, with full regard for its sovereign rights, 
co-operate with other States in the exercise of the right set forth in this 
subparagraph; 

{d) To nationalize, expropriate or requisition foreign property for a 
public purpose, provided that just compensation in the light of all relevant 
circumstances shall be paid; 

(e) 'l'o require that its national jurisdiction be exhausted in any case 
vhere the treatment of foreign investment or compensation therefor is in 
controversy, unless othenvise agreed by the parties; 

(f) ~'o settle disputes where so agreed by the parties concerned through 
negotiation, good offices, inquiry, fact-finding., L'Onciliation ~ mediation, 
arbitration or judicial settlement, on the basis of the principles of sovereign 
equality of States and free choice of means. 

3. States taking measures in the exercise of the foregoing rights shall 
fc;lfil in good faith their international obligations."; 

(h) Ancmdments suOmi tted by Bel17ium ~ Canada., Denmark, Germany (Federal 
Republic cf:,., France~ Greece~ Ireland, Ital~Y., Janan~~~bour~, the Netherlands, 
the United Kitef(~c-f Great-Britain- and---riOrthe;::~eland and the United States of 
AmeriC-a\ A/C. 2/L.lh05f ,.,h{cll cai]_"ed for the rewording of articles 4 and 26 of 
chapter II as f'clluus: 

I ... 



'Chapter II 

Article 4 

A/9946 
English 
Page 17 

Every State has the right to engage in international trade and other 
forms of ecouomic 20--o:peration irrespective of any differences in political, 
economic and social systems. No State shall be subjected to discrimination 
of any kind based solely on such differences, i.e. States in similar situations 
should not be given different treatment. In the pursuit of international trade 
and other forms of economic co-operation, every State is free to choose the 
forms of organization of its foreign economic relations and to enter into 
bilateral and multilateral arrangements consistent >Jith its international 
obligations and with the needs of international economic co-operation. 

Article 26 

All States have the duty to co-exist in tolerance and live together in 
peace~ irrespective of differences in political~ economic~ social and 
cultural systems, and to facilitate trade between countries having different 
economic and social systems. International trade should be conducted without 
prejudice to generalized non-discriminatory and non-reciprocal preferences in 
favour of developing countries and on the basis of mutual advantage and 
equitable benefits. In the pursuit of their trading relations States may, as 
a general rule, exchange most-favoured-nation treatment through bilateral or 
multilateral arrangements. 11 ; 

( i) P_mcndment sutmi tted by Belgium, Denmark, France, Gennany (Federal Republic 
of), Ireland, Italy) ~Ta-pan., luxei~bourr:, the netherlandS-,-the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain ;;-n<! r;.orthern Irela~<!-and the United States of America (A,·C.2/L.l406), >rhich 
called for the deletion of article 5; 

( j) !hnendment submitted by Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic 
of), Irelana, Italy, Japan, Luxemb~urg, th;-u~d Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Irela;;-d-and the United States of Am~rica (A/C.2/L.l407), ;rhich called for 
the rewording of article 6 to re-ad ;g- follov.:;-, --

"All States shall be prepared to study and t1egotiate as appropriate 
world-wide comNodity agreements on a case-by-case basisj which should cover 
as many producers and consumers as possible and a substantial part of the trade 
involved. All States should endeavour to promote the regular flow of raw 
material supplies, including agricultural and industrial raw material supplies, 
having regard to the particular economic circumstances of individual countries, 
at stable, remunerative and equitable prices, thus contributing to the 
development of the world economy while taking into account, in particular, 
the interests of developing countries~ 11 ; 

I ... 



A/9946 
Enr~lish 

Pat;e 18 

(k) Amendment submitted by Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Greece,, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the 
United Kingdom~GJreat Britain-ana-Northern Ireland and the United States of 
America (A/C.2/L.l408), 'which called for the rewording of parat;raph 2 of 
article 12 to read as follows: 

"2. In the case of groupings to which the States concerned have 
transferred or may transfer certain competences as regards matters that come 
·within the scope of this Charter, its provisions shall also apply to those 
groupsings in regard to such matters consistent with the res~onsibilities of 
such States as members of such groupings."; 

(l) Amendment submitted by Belgium, Denmark, France, termany (Federal Republic 
of), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherl~~he United Kingdom of 
Great Britain ~orth8YTI Ireland and the United States of America (A/C.2/L.l409), 
which called for the replacement of article 31 with the following article to appear 
immediately after article 14: 

"All States have the duty to contribute to the balanced expansion of 
the world economy, taking into account the interrelationship between the 
well-being and development of all countries. Consequently all States have 
the duty in the conduct of their mutual economic relations to take into 
account the close relationship and interdependence of the economies of all 
States and to maintain an appropriate balance between the interests of raw 
material producer and consumer countries.,,; 

(m) Amendment submitted by Belgium, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
and the United States of America (A/C.2/L.l410), which called for the deletion 
of article 15; 

(n) Amendment submitted by Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany 
(Federal Republic of), Italy, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of 
America (A/C.2/L.l411), which called for the deletion of article 16; 

(o) Amendment submitted by Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece .. Irela;;d, Italy, Japan,-Luxembourg, the 
~~etherlanCs, the United Eino:do""! of Great Bri trdn 8"nd rorthern I:i:-eland anc1 the United 
States of ~.rcerica (:'/C,2/L,ll!l2) '·Thich called for the deletion ofarticle 19; 

(p) Amendment submitted by Belgium. Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland and the United States of America (A/C.2/L.l413), which called for 
the deletion of article 28: 

(q) Amendment submitted by Belgium, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Greece, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
ana the United States of America (A/C.2/L.l414), which called for the insertion of 
the vrords in accordance with pertinent international norms, regulations and 
obligations" between the words "All States have" and 'the responsibility" in the 
fourth sentence of article 30; 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 19 

{r) Amendment submitted by Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, f"rance, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg--,---
the Netherlands, the United Kingdom of Great Bri~ana-NOrthern Ireland and the 
United States of America (A/C.2/L.l415), which called for the replacement of the 
word "or" with the word "and" in the third line of article 32. 

1. At the l647th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Mexico, on behalf 
of the co-sponsors, introduced revisions (A/C.2/SR.l386/Corr.6) to the draft 
resolution contained in A/C.2/L.l386. These revisions read as follows: 

(a) Revord subparagraph (c) of the fifth preambular·paragraph as follows· 

"{c) The encouragement of co-operation, on the basis of mutual advantage 
and equitable benefits for all peace-loving States which are willing to 
carry out the provisions of this Charter, in the economic, trade, scientific 
and technical fields, regardless of political, economic or social systems;"; 

(b) Revord paragraph 2 (a) of article 2 as follows: 

"(a) To regulate and exercise authority over foreign investment within its 
national jurisdiction in accordance vith its lavs and regulations and in 
conformity with its national objectives and priorities. No State shall be 
compelled to grant preferential treatment to foreign investment;"; 

{c) Reword paragraph 2 (c) of article 2 as follows: 

"(c) To nationalize, expropriate or transfer ownership of foreign property 
in which case appropriate compensation should be paid by the State adol'toing 
such measures, taking into account its relevant laws and regulations and all 
circumstances that the State considers pertinent. In any case vhere the 
question of compensation gives rise to a controversy, it shall be settled 
under the domestic law of the nationalizing State and by its tribunals, unless 
it is freely and mutually agreed by all States concerned that other peaceful 
means be sought on the basis of the sovereign equality of States and in 
accordance vith the principle of free choice of means."; 

(d) Reword article 6 as follows: 

"It is the duty of States to contribute to the development of international 
trade of goods particularly by means of arrangements and by the conclusion of 
long-term multilateral commodity agreements, where appropriate, and taking 
into account the interests of producers and consumers. All States share the 
responsibility to promote the regular flow and access of all commercial goods 
traded at stable, remunerative and equitable prices, thus con+,ributing to the 
equitable development of the world economy, taking into account, in particular, 
the interests of developing countrieso 11 ; 

; ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 20 

(e) Reword article 12 (2) as follows: 

''2~ In the case of groupings · to which the States concerned have 
transferred or may transfer certain competences as regards matters that come 
within the scope of this Charter, its provisions shall also apply to those 
groupings5 in regard to such matters~· consistent with the responsibilities 
of such States as members of such groupings. Those States shall co-operate 
in the observance by the groupings of the provisions of this Charter."; 

(f) Reword article 32 as follows: 

''No State may use or encourage the use of economic,. political or any 
other type of measures to coerce another State in order to obtain from it the 
subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights. 

8. At 
further 

the same meeting, the representative of llexico, 
introduced the following oral revisions: 

on behalf of the sponsors, 

(a) Replacing the words "to codify and develop rules for" in the fourth 
preambular paragraph of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, by the 
words "to promote"; 

{b) In the last preambular paragraph of the Charter of Economic Rights and 
Duties of States, delete, in the last preambular paragraph, the words ''as a first 
step 1n the codification and progrcssi ve development of this subject''. 

9. At the 1647th meeting, on 6 December, the delegation of France, on behalf 
of J3eln;it:.m, Den:nsrk, France~ Germany (J·ederal Renub~ic o( , Ireland, Italy, 
I~ux~m~u~FB_) the ~Tethe~la~~d~ and the unitedK~m oTGX.e3:"t ~t-;-i;_- and Northern 
Ireland, introduced_a_ilr:art resolution\A{c.2/L.l419) the text of which read as 
follows: 

T'he General Assembly, 

Recalling resolution 45 (III) of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development, 

Recognizing the usefulness for the international community of a charter 
defining the economic rights and duties of States, 

c·ansidering that, in view of its object and its universal character, such a 
charter should reflect the largest possible agreement between all countries, 

Taking into account the considerable progress already achieved in the 
successive stages of the preparation of this charter and the search for a consensus, 

Noting that there still exist controversial points which it would be highly 
desirable to settle through appropriate consultations before proposing a text for 
adoption by the United Nations, 

I .. . 



A/9946 
English 
Page 21 

1. Requests the countries which have participated :i,n the Working Group 
established under the aforementioned resolution 45 (III) to continue their efforts 
with a view to submitting a completed and generally accepted dra.ft charter to the 
special session of the General Assembly devoted to development and international 
economic co-operation {September 1975); 

2. Invites the Secretary-General of UNCTAD to assist in facilitating the 
consultations for this purpose, from the beginning of 1975. 

10. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of France, the 
Committee decided, in accordance with rule 131 of the ;ules of procedure of the 
General Assembly, to give priority consideration. to draft resolution A/C.2/L.l419. 

11. At its 1647th meeting, on 6 DecenJ:oer, the representative of the United States 
of America requested that all the votes taken under this item should be recorded. 

12. At the same meeting, the Committee rejected the draft resolution {A/C.2/L.l419) 
by 81 votes to 20, with 15 abstentions. 

In favour: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany {Federal 
Republic of), Iceland, Ireland, lsrael, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of 
!\me rica. 

Against: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile, China, 
Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, 
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic 
Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, 
Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malta, 
Hauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, !1orocco, Nepal, Nicar:;<gua, Niger 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Swaziland, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Abstaining: Australia, Cyprus, Dahomey, Finland, Greece, Grenada, Indonesia, 
Jordan, Khmer Republic, Laos, Malawi, Malaysia, New Zealand, 
Singapore, Thailand. 

13. At its l647th meeting, on 6 December, Ireland joined in sponsoring the 
amendment contained in A/C.2/L.l410. 

14. At the same meeting, Australia withdrew from the list of sponsors of the 
amendment contained in A/C.2/L.l412. 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 22 

15. At the same meeting, France withdrew from the list of sponsors of the 
amenmnent contained in A/C.2/L.l413. 

16. At the same meeting, the amendments contained in documents A/C.2/L.l408 and 
A/C.2/L.l4l5 were withdrawn by the sponsors. 

17. Also at its 1647th meeting, on 6 December, the Committee voted on the 
amendments contained in documents A/C.2/L.l398 to A/C.2/L.l403 (see para. 6 above). 
The result of the voting was as follows: ]/ 

(a) It rejected by 89 votes to 17, with 3 abstentions, the amendments 
contained in A/C.2/L.l398 (see para. 6 (a)) ; 

(b) It rejected by 92 votes to 20, with 10 abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l399 (see para. 6 (b) ) ; 

(c) It rejected by 94 votes to 14, with 14 abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l400 (see para. 6 (c) ) ; 

(d) It rejected by 92 votes to 18, with 12 abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l401 (see para. 6 (d) ) ; 

{e) It rejected by 94 votes to 21, with 8 abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l402 (see para. 6 (e)); 

{f) It rejected by 95 votes to 16, with 10 abstentions, ·the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l403 (see para. 6 (f) ) ; 

18. At its l648th meeting, on 6 December, the Committee voted on the amendments 
contained in A/C.2/L.l404 to A/C.2/L.l415 (see para. 6 above). ~he result of the 
voting was as follows: ~ 

{a) It rejected by 71 votes to 20, with 18 abstentions the amendment 
contained in paragraph 3 of the amendments contained in A/C.2/L. 1404 
(see para. 6 (g)); 

{b) It rejected by 87 votes to 19, with 11 abstentions, paragraphs 1 and 2 
of the amendments contained in A/C.2/L.l404; 

(c) It rejected by 86 votes to 20, with 10 abstentions, the amendments 
contained in A/C.2/L.l405 (see para. 6 (h)); 

(d) It rejected by 98 votes to 15, with 8 abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l406 (see para. 6 (i)); 

]/ For the record of voting see A/C.2/SR.l647. The full record will 
in the final version of this report. 

~ For the record of voting see A/C.2/SR.l648. The full record will 
in the final version of this report. 

appear 

appear 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 23 

(e) It rejected by 95 votes to 17, with 10 abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l407 (see para. 6 ( j)) ; 

(f) It rejected by 97 votes to 15, with 10 abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C. 2/L.llf09 (see para. 6 ( l) ) ; 

(g) It rejected by 76 votes to 22, with 2lf abstentions, the amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l410 (see para. 6 ( m)) ; 

(h) It rejected by 98 votes to 17, with 8 abstentions, tb~ amendment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l4ll (see para. 6 (n)); 

(i) It rejected by 102 votes to 17, with 5 abstentions, the amenQment 
contained in A/C.2/L.l412 (see para. 6 (o)); 

(j) It rejected by 101 votes to 12, with 11 abstentions, the amendments 
contained in A/C.2/L.l413 (see para. 6 (p)); 

(k) It rejected by 91 votes to 22, with 12 abstentions, the amendments 
contained in A/C.2/L.l414 (see para. 6 (Q)); 

19. At its 1648th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of the United States 
of America asked for a separate vote Oil each preambular paragraph, each 
subp·,ragraph of chapter I and each article of the draft Charter of Economic 
RigMs and Duties of States (A/C. 2/1.1386), as revised. 

20. At the reQuest of the representative of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, the Committee decided not to take a vote, and therefore to consider as 
retained, those parts of draft resolution A/C.2/L.l386 and Corr.6, the deletion 
of which had been called for in amendments thereto, whenever the relevant 
amendments had been rejected. 

21. At the same meeting, the representative of Sweden asked for a separate vote 
on paragraph 1 and subparagraph (a), {b) and (c) of article 2 of the Charter. 

22. The result of the voting on draft resolution A/C.2/L.l386, as revised, was 
as follows: 

First preambular paragraph 128 0 0 

Second preambular paragraph 128 0 0 

Third preambular paragraph 128 0 0 

Fourth preambular paragraph 120 0 10 

Fifth preambular paragraph 131 0 0 

Sixth preambular paragraph 131 0 0 

Seventh preambular paragraph 120 3 7 

Eighth preambular paragraph 130 0 0 

/ ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 24 

Ninth preambular paragraph 129 0 0 

Tenth preambular paragraph 130 0 0 

Eleventh preambular paragraph 129 0 0 

Twelfth preambular paragraph 129 0 0 

Thirteenth preambular paragraph 130 0 0 

Chapter I 

Introduction 115 0 13 

(a) 130 0 0 

(b) 129 0 0 

(c) 129 0 0 

(d) 130 0 0 

(e) 129 0 0 

(f) 117 5 5 
(g) 129 0 0 

(h) 130 0 0 

(i) 2! 
( j ) 130 0 0 

(k) 130 0 0 

(1) (m) (n) 130 0 0 

(o) 117 0 12 

Chapter II 

Article l 131 0 0 

Article 2 

Paragraph l 119 9 3 

Paragraph 2 (a) 113 10 4 

Paragraph 2 (b) 119 4 6 

Paragraph 2 (c) 104 16 6 

5/ No vote was taken consequent upon the rejection of the anendment contained 
in A/C.2/L.l403. 

I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 25 

Chapter II (continued) 

Article 3 97 7 25 
Article 4 115 8 7 
Article 5§) 

Article 6 119 8 2 
Article 7 129 0 0 

Article 8 131 0 0 

Article 9 129 0 0 

Article 10 129 0 0 

Article 11 129 0 0 

Article 12 128 0 0 

Article 13 129 0 0 

Article 14 128 0 l 

Article 15 II 
Article 16 §.! 

Article l7 130 0 0 

Article 18 131 0 0 

Article 19 2) 

Article 20 110 l 12 

Articles 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 131 0 0 

Article 26 105 14 10 

Article 27 131 0 0 

Article 28 10/ 

Article 29 113 0 17 

Article 30 126 0 3 

Article 31 129 0 0 

Article 32 11() 0 11 

6/ "o vote <Tas taken consequent upon the rejection of the amendment contained 
in A/C.2/L.l406 

7/ No vote was taken consequent upon the rejection of the amendment contained 
in A/C:2/L .. l4lO. 

8/ No vote was taken consequent upon the rejection of the amendment contained 
1n A/C. 2/L. 1411.. 

9/ No vote was taken consequent upon the rejection of the amendment contained 
in A/C. 2/L. 1412.. 

10/ :To vote was taken consequent upon the rejection of the amendrnent contained 
in A/E.2/L,ll,l3. I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 26 

Article 33 

Article 34 

Chapter II (continued) 

131 

123 

0 

0 

0 

8 

23. At the 1648th meeting, on 6 December, the Committee voted on the draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l386), as revised, as a whole. The draft resolution was 
adopted by a roll-call vote of 115 to 6 with 10 abstentions (see para. 25 below). 
The result of the voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, 
Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic 
Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, 
Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, 
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti~ 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, 
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Laos, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malmli, 
Malaysia, Bali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, 
Romania, Rwanda~ Saudi Arabia, Sene~al 9 Sierra Leone, Singapore~ 
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire, Zambia. 

Belgium, Denmark, Germany (Federal Republic of), Luxembourg, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United 
States of America. 

Abstentions: Austria, Canada, France, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, 
Netherlands, Norway, Spain. 

24. At its l649th meeting, on 6 December, the Committee decided to authorize the 
Rapporteur of the Committee to present the report of the Committee on this item to 
the General Assembly, with only the numerical results of the voting under this 
item, on the understanding that delegations would refer to the summary records for 
the full list of the results of the voting, that this decision should not be 
considered as a precedence and that a full record of voting would appear in the 
final version of the report. 

I .. . 



RECOMMENDATION OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE 

A/9946 
English 
Page 27 

25. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the_adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in its 
resolution 45 (III) of 18 May 1972, stressed the urgency "to establish generally 
accepted norms to govern international economic relations systematically" and 
recognized that "it is not feasible to establish a just order and a stable world 
as long as the Charter to protect the rights of all countries, and in particular 
the developing States, is not formulated", 

Recalling further that in the same resolution it was decided to establish a 
Working Group of governmental representatives to draw up a draft Charter of 
Economic Rights and Duties of States, which the General Assembly, in its resolution 
3037 (XXVII) of 19 December 1972, decided should be composed of 40 Member States, 

Noting that in its resolution 3082 (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973, it reaffi•med 
its conviction of the urgent need to establish or improve norms of universal 
application for the development of international economic relations on a just and 
equitable basis and urged the Working Group on the Charter of Economic Rights and 
Duties of States to complete, as the first step, in the codification and development 
of the matter, the elaboration of a final draft Charter of Economic Rights and 
Duties of States, to be considered and approved by the General Assembly at its 
twenty-ninth session, 

Bearing in mind the spirit and terms of its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 
3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974, containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action 
on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order, which underlined the 
vital importance of the Charter to be adopted by the General Assembly at its 
twenty-ninth session and stressed the fact that the Charter shall constitute an 
effective instrument towards the establishment of a new system of international 
economic relations based on equity, sovereign equality, and interdependence of the 
interests of developed and developing countries, 

Having examined the report of the 1oorking Group on the Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States on its fourth session, 11/ transmitted to the General 
Assembly by the Trade and Development Board at its fourteenth session, 

Expressing its appreciation to the Working Group on the Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States which, as a result of the task performed in its four 

11/ TD/B/AC.l2/4. 

I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 28 

sessions held between February 1973 and June 1974; assembled the elements required 
for the completion and adpption of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of 
States at the twenty~ninth session of the General Assembly, as previously 
recommended:) 

Adopts and solemnly proclaims the following: 

CHARTER OF ECONOMIC RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF STATES 

PREAMBLE 

The General Assembly, 

Reaffirming the fundamental purposes of the United Nations, in particular, 
the maintenance of international peace and security, the development of friendly 
relations among nations and the achievement of international co-operation in solving 
international problems in the economic and social fields, 

Affirming the need for strengthening international co-operataon in these 
fields, 

Reaffirming :further the need for strengthening international co-operation for 
development, 

Declaring that it is a fundamental purpose of this Charter to promote the 
establishment of the new international economic order, based on equity, sovereign 
equality, interdependence, common interest and co-operation among all States, 
irrespective of their economic and social systems, 

Desirous of contributing to the creation of conditions for: 

(a) The attainment of wider prosperity among all countries and of higher 
standards of living for all peoples, 

(b) The promotion by the entire international community of economic and 
social progress of all countries, especially developing countries, 

(c) The encouragement of co-operation, on the basis of mutual advantage and 
equitable benefits for all peace-loving States which are willing to carry out the 
provisions of this Charter, in the economic, trade, scientific and technical fields, 
regardless of political, economic or social systems, 

(d) The overcoming of main obstacles in the way of economic development of 
the developing countries, 

(e) The acceleration of the economic growth of developing countries with a 
view to bridging the economic gap between developing and developed countries, 

(f) The protection, preservation and enhancement of the environment, 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 29 

!vlindful of the need to establish and maintain a just and equitable economic 
and social order through: 

(a) The achievement of more rational and equitable international economic 
relations and the encouragement of structural changes in the world economy, 

(b) The creation of conditions which permit the further expansion of trade 
and intensification of economic co-operation among al~ nations, 

(c) The strengthening of the economic independence of developing countries, 

(d) The establishment and promotion of international economic relations 
taking into account the agreed differences in development of the developing 
countries and their specific needs, 

Determined to promote collective economic. security for development, in 
particular of the developing countries, with strict respect for the sovereign 
equality of each State and through the co-operation of the entire international 
community, 

Considerinp; that genuine co-operation among States, based on joint 
consideration of and concerted action regarding international economic problems, 
is essential for fulfilling the international community's common desire to achieve 
a just and rational development of all parts of the world, 

Stressing the importance of ensuring appropriate conditions for the conduct 
of normal economic relations among all States, irrespective of differences in social 
and economic systems, and for the full respect for the rights of all peoples, as 
well as the strengthening of instruments of international economic co-operation as 
means for the consolidation of peace for the benefit of all, 

Convinced of the need to develop a system of international economic relations 
on the basis of sovereign equality, mutual and equitable benefit and the close 
interrelationship of the interests of all States, 

Reiteratinp; that the responsibility for the development of every country 
rests primarily upon itself but that concomitant and effective international 
co-operation is an essential factor for the full achievement of its own development 
goals, 

Firmly convinced of the urgent need to evolve a substantially improved system 
of international economic relations, 

Solemnly adopts the present Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States. 

I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 30 

CHAPTER I 

Fundamentals of international economic relations 

Economic as well as political and other relations among States shall be 
governed inter alia by the following principles: 

(a) Sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States; 

(b) Sovereign equality of all States; 

(c) Non-aggression; , 

(d) Non--intervention; 

(e) Mutual and equitable benefit; 

·(f) Peaceful coexistence; 

(g) Equal rights and self-determination of peoples; 

(h) Peaceful settlement of disputes; 

(i) Remedying of injustices which have been brought about by force and which 
deprive a nation of the natural means necessary for its normal development; 

(j) Fulfilment in good faith of international obligations; 

(k) Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; 

(1) No attempt to seek hegemony and spheres of influence; 

(m) Promotion of international social justice; 

(n) International co-operation for developm~nt; 

(o) Free access to and from the sea by land-locked countries within the 
framework of the above principles. 

CHAPTER II 

Economic rights and duties of States 

Article l 

Every State has the sovereign and inalienable right to choose its economic 
system as well as its political, social and cultural systems in accordance with the 
will of its people, without outside interference, coercion or threat in any form 
whatsoever. 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 31 

Article 2 

l. Every State has and shall freely exercise full permanent sovereignty, 
including possession, use and disposal, over all its wealth, natural resources and 
economic activities. 

2. Each State has the right: 

(a) To regulate and exercise authority 
national jurisdiction in accordance with its 
with its national objectives and priorities. 
preferential treatment to foreign investment; 

over foreign investment within its 
laws and regulations and in conformity 

No State shall be compelled to grant 

(b) To regulate and supervise the activities of transnation~l corporations 
within its national jurisdiction and take measures to ensure that such activities 
comply with its laws, rules and regulations and conform with its economic and 
social policies. Transnational corporations shall not intervene in the internal 
affairs of a host State. Every State should, with full regard for its sovereign 
rights, co-operate with other States in the exercise of the right set forth in 
this subparagraph; 

(c) To nationalize, expropriate or transfer ownership of foreign property 
he ·..rhicb case appropriate compensation should be paid by the State adopting such 
measures, taking into account its relevant laws and regulations and all 
circumstances that the State considers pertinent. In any case where the question 
of compensation gives rise to a controversy, it shall be settled under the domestic 
law of the nationalizing State and by its tribunals, unless it is freely and 
mutually agreed by all States concerned that other peaceful means be sought on the 
basis of the sovereign equality of States and in accordance with the principle of 
free choice of means. 

Article 3 

In the exploitation of natural resources shared by two or more countries, 
each State must co-operate on the basis of a system of information and prior 
consultations in order to achieve optimum use of such resources without causing 
damage to the legitimate interest of others. 

Article 4 

Every State bas the right to engage in international trade and other forms of 
economic co-operation irrespective of any differences in political~ economic and 
social systems. No State shall be subjected to discrimination of any kind based 
solely on such differences. In the pursuit of international trade and other forms 
of economic co-operation, every State is free to choose the forms of organization 
of its foreign economic relations and to enter into bilateral and multilateral 
arrangements consistent with its international obligations and with the needs of 
international economic co-operation. 

I .. . 



A/9946 
English 
Page 32 

Article 5 

All States have the .right to associate in organizations of primary commodity 
producers in order to develop their national economies to achieve stable financing 
for their development, and in pursuance of their aims assisting in the promotion 
of sustained growth of the world economy, in particular accelerating the 
development of developing countries. Correspondingly all States have the duty to 
respect that right by refraining from applying economic and political measures 
that would limit it. 

Article 6 

It is the duty of States to contribute to the development of international 
trade of goods particularly by means of arrangements and by the conclusion of 
long-term multilateral commodity agreements, where appropriate, and taking into 
account the interests of producers and consumers. All States share the 
responsibility to promote the regular flow and access of all commercial goods 
traded at stable, remunerative and equitable prices, thus contributing to the 
equitable development of the world economy, taking into account, in particular, 
the interests of developing countries. 

Article 7 

Every State has the primary responsibility to promote the economic, social and 
cultural development of its people. To this end, each State has the right and the 
responsibility to choose its means and goals of development, fully to mobilize and 
use its resources, to implement progressive economic and social reforms and to 
ensure .the full participation of its people in the process and benefits of 
development. All States have the duty, individually and collectively, to 
co-operate in order to eliminate obstacles that hinder such mobilization and use. 

Article 8 

States should co-operate in facilitating more rational and equitable 
international economic relations and in encouraging structural changes in the 
context of a balanced world economy in harmony with the needs and interests of all 
countries, especially developing countries, and should take appropriate measures to 
this end. 

Article 9 

All States have the responsibility to co-operate in the economic, social, 
cultural, scientific and technological fields for the promotion of economic and 
social progress throughout the world, especially that of the developing countries. 

Article 10 

All States are juridically equal and, as equal members of the international 
community, have the right to participate fully and effectively in the international 
decision-making process in the solution of world economic, financial and monetary 
problems, inter alia, through the appropriate international organizations in 
accordance with their existing and evolving rules, and to share equitably in the 
benefits resulting therefrom. 

I ... 



Article ll 

.'1./9946 
English 
Page 33 

All States should co-operate to strengthen and continuously improve the 
efficiency of international organizations in implementing measures to stimulate 
the general economic progress of all countries, particularly of developing 
countries, and therefore should co-operate to adapt them, when appropriate, to the 
changing needs of international economic co-operation. 

Article 12 

1. States have the right, in agreement with the parties concerned, to 
participate in subregional, regional and interregional co-operation in the pursuit 
of their economic and social development. All States engaged in such co-operation 
have the duty to ensure that the policies of those groupings.to which they belong 
correspond to the provisions of the Charter and are outward-looking, consistent 
with their international obligations and with the needs of international economic 
co-operation and have full regard for the legitimate interests of third countries, 
especially developing countries. 

2. In the case of groupings to which the States concerned have transferred 
or may transfer certain competences as regards matters that come within the scope 
of this Charter, its provisions shall also apply to those groupings, in regard to 
such matters, consistent with the responsibilities of such States as members of 
such groupings. Those States shall co-operate in the observance by the groupings 
of the provisions of this Charter. 

Article 13 

1. Every State has the right to benefit from the advances and developments 
in science and technology for the acceleration of its economic and social 
development. 

2. All States should promote international scientific and technological 
co-operation and the transfer of technology, with proper regard for all legitimate 
interests including, inter alia, the rights and duties of holders, suppliers and 
recipients of technology. In particular, all States should facilitate: the 
access of developing com1tries to the achievements of modern science and technology, 
the transfer of technology and the creation of indigenous technology for the 
benefit of the developing countries in forms and in accordance with procedures 
which are suited to their economies and their needs. 

3. Accordingly, developed countries should co-operate with the developing 
countries in the establishment, strengthening and development of their scientific 
and technological infrastructures and their scientific research and technological 
activities so as to help to expand and transform the economies of developing . 
countrieso 

4. All States should co-operate in exploring with a view to evolving further 
internationally accepted guidelines or regulations for the transfer of technology 
taking fully into account the interests of developing countries. 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 34 

Article 14 

Every State has the duty to co-operate in promoting a steady and increasing 
expansion and liberalization of world trade and an improvement in the welfare and 
living standards of all peoples, in particular those of developing countries. 
Accordingly, all States should co-operate, inter alia, towards the progressive 
dismantling of obstacles to trade and the improvement of the international 
framework for the conduct of world trade and, to these ends, co-ordinated efforts 
shall be made to solve in an equitable way the trade problems of all countries 
taking into account the specific trade problems of the developing countries. In 
this connexion, States shall take measures aimed at securing additional benefits 
for the international trade of developing countries so as to achieve a substantial 
increase in their foreign exchange earnings, the diversification of their exports, 
the acceleration of the rate of growth of their trade, taking into account their 
development needs, an improvement in the possibilities for these countries to 
participate in the expansion of world trade and a balance more favourable to 
developing countries in the sharing of the advantages resulting from this 
expansion, through, in the largest possible measure, a substantial improvement in 
the condicions of access for the products of interest to the developing countries 
and, wherever appropriate, measures designed to attain stable, equitable and 
remunerative prices for primary products. 

Article 15 

All States have the duty to promote the achievement of general and complete 
disarmament under effective international control and to utilize the resources 
freed by effective disarmament measures for the economic and social development 
of countries, allocating a substantial portion of such resources as additional 
means for the development needs of developing countries. 

Article 16 

l. It is the right and duty of all States, individually and collectively, 
to eliminate colonialism, apartheid, racial discriminationj neo-colonialism and 
all forms of foreign aggression~ occupation and domination:~ and the economic and 
social consequences thereof, as a prerequisite for development. States which 
practice such coercive policies are economically responsible to the countries, 
territories and peoples affected for the restitution and full compensation for the 
exploitation and depletion of, and damages to, the natural and all other resources 
of those countries, territories and peoples. It is the duty of all States to 
extend assistance to them. 

2. No State has the right to promote or encourage investments that may 
constitute an obstacle to the liberation of a territory occupied by force. 

Article 17 

International co-operation for development is the shared goal and common duty 
of all States. Every State should co-operate with the efforts of developing 
countries to accelerate their economic and social development by providing 

I . .. 



A/9946 
English 
Page 35 

favourable external conditions and by extending active assistance to them, 
consistent with their development needs and objectives, with strict respect for 
the sovereign equality of States and free of any conditions derogating from their 
sovereignty. 

Article 18 

Developed countries should extend, improve and enlarge the system of 
generalized non-reciprocal and non-discriminatory tariff preferences to the 
developing countries consistent with the relevant agreed conclusions and relevant 
decisions as adopted on this subject, in the framework of the competent 
international organizations. Developed countries should also give serious 
consideration to the adoption of other differential measures, in areas where this 
is feasible and appropriate and in ways which will provide special and more 
favourable treatment, in order to meet trade and development needs of the 
developing countries. In the conduct of international economic relations the 
developed countries should endeavour to avoid measures having a negative effect 
on the development of the national economies of the developing countries, as 
promoted by generalized tariff preferences and other generally agreed differential 
measures in their favour. 

Article 19 

With a view to accelerating the economic growth of developing countries and 
bridging the economic gap between developed and developing countries, developed 
countries should grant generalized preferential, non-reciprocal and 
non-discriminatory treatment to developing countries in those fields of 
international economic co-operation where it may be feasible. 

Article 20 

Developing countries should, in their efforts to increase their over-all 
trade, give due attention to the possibility of expanding their trade with 
socialist countries, by granting to these countries conditions for trade not 
inferior to those granted normally to the developed market economy countries. 

Article 21 

Developing countries should endeavour to promote the expansion of their 
mutual trade and to this end, may, in accordance with the existing and evolving 
provisions and procedures of international agreements where applicable, grant 
trade preferences to other developing countries without being obliged to extend 
such preferences to developed countries, provided these arrangements do not 
constitute an impediment to general trade liberalization and expansion. 

Article 22 

1. All States shoul.d respond to the generally recognized or mutually agreed 
development needs and objectives of developing countries by promoting increased net 
flows of real resources to the developing countries from all sources, taking into 
account any obligations and commitments undertaken by the States concerned, in 
order to reinforce the effottd of developing countries to accelerate their economic 
and social development. 

I ... 

• 



• 

A/9946 
English 
Page 36 

2. In this context, consistent with the aims and objectives mentioned above 
and taking into account any obligations and commitments undertaken in this regard, 
it should be their endeavour to increase the net amount of financial flows from 
official sources to developing countries and to improve the terms and conditions. 

3. The flow of development assistance resources should include economic 
and technical assistanceo 

Article 23 

To enhance the effective mobilization of their own resources, the developing 
countries should strengthen their economic co-operation and expand their mutual 
trade so as to accelerate their economic and social development. All countries, 
especially developed countries, individually as well as through the competent 
international organizations of which they are members, should provide appropriate 
and effective support and co-operation. 

Article 24 

All States have the duty to conduct their mutual economic relations in a 
manner which takes into account the interests of other countries. In particular, 
all States should avoid prejudicing the interests of developing countries. 

Article 25 

In furtherance of world economic development, the international community, 
especially its developed members, shall pay special attention to the particular 
needs and problems of the least developed among the developing countries, of 
land-locked developing countries and also island developing countries, with a 
view to helping them to overcome their particular difficulties and thus contribute 
to their economic and social development. 

Article 26 

All States have the duty to coexist in tolerance and live together in peace, 
irrespective of differences in political, economic, social and cultural systems, 
and to facilitate trade between States having different economic and social 
systems. International trade should be conducted without prejudice to generalized 
non-discriminatory and non-reciprocal preferences in favour of developing 
countries, on the basis of mutual advantage, equitable benefits and the exchange 
of most-favoured-nation treatment . 

!'rticle 27 

1. Every State has the right to fully enjoy the benefits of world invisible 
trade and to engage in the expansion of such trade. 

2. World invisible trade, based on efficiency and mutual and equitable 
benefit, furthering the expansion of the world economy, is the common goal of all 
States. The role of developing countries in world invisible trade should be 
enhanced and strengthened consistent with the above objectives, particular 
attention being paid to the special needs of developing countries. 

/ ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 37 

3. All States should co-operate with developing countries in their 
endeavours to increase their capacity to earn foreign exchange from invisible 
transactions, in accordance with the potential and needs of each developing 
country, and consistent with the objectives mentioned above. 

Article 28 

All States have the duty to co-operate in achieving adjustments in the prices 
of exports of developing countries in relation to prices of their imports so as to 
promote just and equitable terms of trade for them, in a manner which is 
remunerative for producers and equitable for producers and consumers. 

CHAPTER III 

Common responsibilities towards the international community 

Article 29 

The sea-bed and ocean floor and the subsoil thereof, beyo~d the limits of 
national jurisdiction, as well as the resources of the area, are the common 
heritage of mankind. On the basis of the principles adopted by the General 
Assembly in resolution 2749 (XXV) of 17 December 1970, all States shall ensure 
that the exploration of the area and exploitation of its resources are carried 
out exclusively for peaceful purposes and that the benefits derived therefrom are 
shared equitably by all States, taking into account the particular interests and 
needs of developing countries; an international regime applying to the area and 
its resources and including appropriate international machinery to give effect to 
its provisions shall be established by an international treaty of a universal 
character, generally agreed upon. 

Article 30 

The protection, preservation and the enhancement of the environment for the 
present and future generations is the responsibility of all States. All States 
shall endeavour to establish their own environmental and developmental policies 
in conformity with such responsibility. The environmental policies of all States 
should enhance and not adversely affect the present and future development 
potential of developing countries. All States have the responsibility to ensure 
that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the 
environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national 
jurisdiction. All States should co-operate in evolving international norms and 
regulations in the fields of the environment. 

I ... 



A/9946 
English 
Page 38 

CHAPTER IV 

Final provisions 

Article 31 

All States have the duty to contribute to the balanced expansion of the world 
economy, taking duly into account the close interrelationship between the 
well-being of the developed countries and the growth and development of the 
developing countries and that the prosperity of the international community as a 
whole depends upon the prosperity of its constituent parts. 

Article 32 

No State may use or encourage the use of economic, political or any other 
type of measures to coe,rce another State in order to obtain from it the 
subordination of the eiercise of its sovereign rights. 

Article 33 

l. Nothing in the present Charter shall be construed as impairing or 
derogating from the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations or actions 
taken in pursuance thereof. 

2. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of the present 
Charter are interrelated and each provision should be construed in the context of 
the other provisions. 

Article 34 

An item on the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States shall be 
inscribed on the agenda of the General Assembly at its thirtieth session, and 
thereafter on the agenda of every fifth session. In this way a systematic and 
comprehensive consideration of the implementation of the Charter, covering both 
progress achieved and any improvements and additions which might become necessary, 
would be carried out and appropriate measures recommended. Such consideration 
should take into account the evolution of all the economic, social, legal and 
other factors related to the principles upon which the present Charter is based 
and on its purpose. 




