
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 24 

• 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9900 
4 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

REDUCTION OF THE MILITARY BUDGETS OF STATES PERMANENT MEMBERS 
OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL BY 10 PER CENT AND UTILIZATION OF PART 
OF THE FUNDS THUS SAVED TO PROVIDE ASSIS'rANCE TO DEVELOPING 

COUNTRIES 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Ant6nio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

1. The following item was included by the Secretary-General in the provisional 
agenda of the twenty-ninth session on the basis of General Assembly resolutions 
3093 A and B (XXVIII) of' 7 December 1973: 

"Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of the 
Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the funds thus 
saved to provide assistance to developing countries: 

{a) Report of the Special Committee on the Distribution of the Funds 
Released_as a Result of the Reduction of Military Budgets; 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General." 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee for consideration and report. 

3. At its 1987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided to have a 
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely: 

Item 24: Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of the 
Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the funds 
thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries. 

Item 27: Napalm and other incendiary weapons and all aspects of their 
possible use. 

74-34207 / ... 



A/9900 
English 
Page 2 

Item 28: Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons. 

Item 29: Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban. 

Item 30: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3079 (XXVIII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 31: Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of 
Peace. 

Item 34: World Disarmament Conference. 

Item 35: General and complete disarmament. 

Item 100: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) concerning 
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the 
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America 
(Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 101: Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of th& 
Middle East , 

Item 103: Prohibition of action to influence the environment and climate for 
military and other purposes incompatible with the maintenance of 
international security, human well-being and health. 

Item 107: Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia. 

4. The general debate on these items took place at the 1998th to the 2016th 
meetings, from 21 October to 11 November. 

5. The First Committee had before it, in connexion with agenda item 24, the 
following documents: 

(a) Letter dated 25 July 1974 from the President of the General Assembly to 
the Secretary-General (A/9565); 

(b) Letter dated 14 August 1974 from the Permanent Representative of China to 
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/9713); 

(c) Note by the Secretary-General dated 16 October 1974 (A/9800); 

(d) Report of the Secretary-General (A/9770) prepared in pursuance of General 
Assembly resolution 3093 B (XXVIII). 

I . .. 



A/9900 
English 
Page 3 

6. On 18 November, Ethiopia, Mexico, Nigeria and Sweden submitted a draft 
resolution (A/C.l/L.695), which was subsequently revised (A/C.l/L.695/Rev.l) and 
also sponsored by the United Republic of Cameroon. The revised draft resolution 
was introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 2027th meeting, on 
22 November. 

7. At its 2028th meeting, on 22 November, the First Committee adopted the revised 
draft resolution (A/C.l/L.695/Rev.l) by 89 votes to 2, with 13 abstentions 
(see para. 8 below). 

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of the 
Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the funds 

thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling that in its resolution 3093 B (XXVIII) of 7 December 1973 it 
requested the Secretary-General to prepare, with the assistance of qualified 
consultant experts appointed by him, a report on the reduction of the military 
budgets of the States permanent members of the Security Council, which should also 
cover other States with a major economic and military potential, and on the 
utilization of a part of the funds thus saved to provide international assistance 
to developing countries, 

Having examined the report of the Group of Consultant Experts on the Reduction 
of Military Budgets, transmitted to the General Assembly by the Secretary-General 
on 14 October 1974, ~ 

Noting that Governments have not had the time necessary to study that report 
with the attention and care which the important and complex questions covered in it 
merit, 

Considering, therefore, that it would be advisable to postpone any assessment 
by the General Assembly regarding the substance of those questions, 

l. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General and to the consultant 
experts, as well as to the Governments and international organizations which rendered 
assistance in the preparation of the report requested in General Assembly resolution 
3093 B (XXVIII); 

~ A/9770. 

I ... 



A/9900 
English 
Page 4 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements 
for the report to be issued as a United Nations publication and widely 
distributed; 

3. Invites all States to communicate to the Secretary-General, before 
30 June 19T5, their views and suggestions on all those points they deem pertinent 
with regard to the matters covered in the report, including the following: 

(a) Meaning and scope of a definition of "military budgets" which has the 
greatest probability of receiving general acceptance; 

(b) Feasible and adequate procedures so that the United Nations may 
establish a system of standardized military budgets of the States envisaged. in 
resolution 3093 B (XXVIII); 

(c) Per cent reduction advisable for the States permanent members of the 
Security Council, bearing in mind that a 10 per cent reduction has been proposed; 

(d) Definition of what should be understood by "other States with a major 
economic and military potential"; 

(e) Per cent reduction advisable for these States; 

(f) Part of the resources released through the reduction of military budgets 
which should be allotted to international assistance for developing countries; 

(g) International system or mechanism, within the framework of the United 
Nations, which should be employed in order to achieve the best distribution and 
utilization of the additional assistance allotted to the developing countries, 
taking into account the goals set for the Second United Nations Development 
Decade; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to distribute as a document of the 
thirtieth session of the General Assembly, not later than 1 August 1975, a report 
containing a compilation, by countries, of the views and suggestions requested in 
the present resolution and a tabulation of the same according to the matters 
covered therein, particularly regarding the seven points sp~cified in paragraph 3 
above; 

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session an 
item entitled "Implementation of General Assembly resolution ... (XXIX): report 
of the Secretary-General". 




