
















































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9908 
5 December 1971f 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 100 

IMPLEMENTATION OF GENE!~L ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION 2286 (XXII} 
CONCERNING THE SIGNATURE AND RATIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL 
PROTOCOL I OF THE TREATY FOR THE PROHIBITION OF NUCLEAR 

WEAPONS IN LA'HN AMERICA (TREATY OF TLATELOLCO) 

Report of the First Committee 

~pporteur: i'\r. Antonio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal} 

1. This item was included in the provisional agenda of the twenty-ninth session 
at the reQuest of Barbados, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, J'amaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, 
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela (A/9692}. 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation· of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee for consideration and report. 

3. At its 1987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided to have a 
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely: 

Item 24: 

Item 27: 

Item 28: 

Item 29: 

74-34467 

Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of 
the Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the 
funds thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries. 

Napalm and other incendiary <~eapons and all aspects of their 
possible use. 

Chemical and bacteriological (biological} weapons. 

Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test 
ban. 

/ ... 



A/9908 
English 
Page 2 

Item 30: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3079 (XXVIII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
-~erica (Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 31: Implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone 
of Peace. 

Item 34: World Disarmament Conference 

Item 35: General and complete disarmament. 

Item 100: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin 
America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). 

Item 101: Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East. 

Item 103: Prohibition of action to influence the environment and climate for 
military and other purposes incompatible with the maintenance of 
international security, human well--being and health. 

Item 107: Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia. 

4. The general debate on these items took place at the 1998th to 20i6th meetings, 
from 21 October to 11 November. 

5. On 8 November~ Barbados~ Bolivia~ Colombia~ Costa Rica~ the Dominican 
Republic1 Ecuador~ El Salvador~ Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica~ Mexico, 
Nicaragua~ Panama, Paraguay!' Peru~ Trinidad and Tobago .. Uruguay and -Venezuela 
submitted-a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.686 and Corr.2). The draft resolution was 
introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 2018th meeting, on 13 November. 

6. At the 2023rd meeting, on 19 November, draft resolution A/C.l/L.686 and Corr.2 
was adopted by 84 votes to none, with 18 abstentions!/ (see para. 7 below). 

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COllll'UTTEE 

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
follmdng draft resolution: 

~/ Subsequently, the delegations of the Congo, Mauritius, Togo and the United 
Republic of Cameroon stated that, had they been present at the voting, they would 
have voted in favour of the draft resolution. 

I . .. 



Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) 
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional 
Protocol I of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear 

Wea~ons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) 

The General Assembly, 

A/9908 
English 
Page 3 

Recalling that in its resolution 2286 (XXII) of 5 December 1967 it welcomed 
with special satisfaction the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Heapons in 
Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) and declared that it constituted an event of 
historic significance in the efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons and to promote international peace and security, 

Noting that as a result of the Treaty, to which 18 sovereign States are 
already parties, there exists in Latin America a zone of increasing area and 
population subject to the regime of total absence of nuclear weapons, <rhich at 
present comprises some 8 million square kilometres with a population of 
approximately 150 million inhabitants, 

Taking into account that certain territories lying within the zone ;rhich are 
not sovereign political entities are nevertheless in a position to receive the 
benefits derived from the Treaty through its Additional Protocol I to which the 
States which de jure or de facto are internationally responsible for those 
territories may become parties 9 

Recalling that in resolution 2286 (XXII) it urged States to which Additional 
Protocol I is open for signature to strive to t~~e all the measures within their 
po;rer to ensure that the Treaty speedily obtains the widest possible application, 

1. Notes with satisfaction that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland deposited its instrument of ratification of Additional Protocol I 
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Heapons in Latin America (Treaty of 
Tlatelolco) on 11 December 1969 and that the Kingdom of the Netherlands did 
like<rise on 26 July 1971; 

2. Urges the other two States which under the Treaty may become parties to 
its Additional Protocol I to sign and ratify it as soon as possible, in order that 
the peoples of the territories in question may receive the benefits which derive 
from the Treaty and which consist mainly in removing the danger of nuclear attack 
and sparing the squandering of resources on the production of nuclear weapons; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to the 
two States to which the above appeal is addressed and to inform the General 
Assembly at its thirtieth session of any measure adopted by those States; 

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session an 
item entitled "Implementation of General Assembly resolution ... (XXIX) concerning 
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I·of the Treaty for the 
Prohibition of Nuclear Heapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco)". 




