
















































UNITED NATIONS 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9909 
GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 6 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda item 101 

ESTABLISHMENT OF A NUCLEAR-WEAPON-FREE ZONE 
IN THE REGION OF THE MIDDLE EAST 

• 

Report of the, First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Antonio da COSTA LOBO (Portugal) 

1. The item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East" was included by the Secretary-General in the provisional agenda of the 
twenty-ninth session at the request of Iran (A/9693). Subsequently, Egypt 
co-sponsored that request (A/9693/Add.l). Egypt and Iran later proposed 
(A/9693/Add.2) that the item should read: "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone in the region of the Middle East". • 

2. At its 2236th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee for consideration and report. 

3. At its 1987th meeting, on 25 September, the First Committee decided to have a 
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and the 
Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely: 

Item 24: Reduction of the military budgets of States permanent members of the 
Security Council by 10 per cent and utilization of part of the funds 
thus saved to provide assistance to developing countries. 

Item 27: Napalm and other incendiary weapons and all aspects of their possible 
use. 

Item 28: Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons. 

Item 29: Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear tests and 
conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban • 

• Item 30: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3079 (XXVIII) concerning 
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II of the 
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear li'eapons in Latin A'llerica (Treaty 
of Tlatelolco). 

74-34664 / .•• 



A/9909 
English 
Page 2 

Item 31: Implementatio~ of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of 
Peace o 1 

Item 34: Horld Disarmmnent Conference. 

Item 35: General and complete disarmament. 

Item 100: Implementation of General Assembly resolution 2286 (XXII) concerning 
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the 
'l'reaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear \.Jeapons in Latin America 
(Treaty of 'l'latelolco). 

Item 101: Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle Eas<;. 

Item 103: Prohibition of action to influence the environment and climate for 
military and other purposes incompatible with the maintenance of 
international se:ourity, human well--being and health. 

Item 107: Declaration and establishment of a nuclear-free zone in South Asia. 

4. The general debate on these i"tems took place at the l998th to 2016th meetings, 
from 21 October to 11 November. 

5. 'l'he First Committee had before it, in connexion with agenda item 101, a note 
by the Secretary-General dated 17 September, circulating, at the request of the 
Permanent Representative of' Iran, a message of His Imperial Majesty the 
Shahanshah Arynmehr (A/9693/Add. 3). 

6. On 20 November, Egypt and Iran submitted a draft re~olution (A/C.l/1. 700), 
which was introduced at the 2026th meeting by the representative of Iran. 

7. At the 2028th meeting, on 22 November, Iran, on behalf of the spons'ors, 
:oroposed to delete in the sixth preambular paragraph the word "ultimate" before the 
word "goal", so that the paragraph would rea.d as i'ollows: 

~tconsidering that the establishment of zones free from nuclear weapons, 
on the initiative of the States situated within each zone concerned, is one 
of the measures which can contribute most effectively to halting the 
proliferation of those instruments of mass destruction and to promoting 
progress tow·ards nuclear disarmament, 1<ith the goal of total destruction of' 
all_ nuclear weapons and their means of delivery; 11 

84 At the same meeting~ a separate vote was taken on the last two preambular 
paragraphs and on operative paragraph 3 of the drai't resolution (see para. 10 
below). They were adopted by a roll-call vote of 93 to none with 9 abstentions. 
The voting was as follows: 

'· 

I . .. 



In favour: 

Against: 

A/9909 
English 
Page 3 

Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Belgium, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Congo, Costa 
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Ghana~ Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary) Iran, 
Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali~ Mauritania, Mexico~ 
Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United States of America, 
Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire. 

None. ' 

Abstaining: Argentina, Brazil, France, India, Indonesia, Israel, Spain, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia. 

9. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/C.l/1.700, as amended (see para. 7 
above), was adopted by a roll-call vote of 103 to none, with 3 abstentions !_/ (see 
para. 10 below) • The votine; was as follows: 

the 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia~ AuStria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados) Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi, 
Byelorussi~n Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, 
German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, 
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea~ Guyana~ Hungary, Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos~ Lel)anon, Liberia, Madagascar, 
Malaysia 3 Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand"' Nica.ragua"' Nigeria, Oman.., Pakistan~ 
Paraguay~ Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar 1 Romania.._.. 
Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland~ Syrian .Arab Republic, Thailar1d, 
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet foci "=',list Repu"tlic, 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Aro:;t.:) Knirateu, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ic .. ,.,~.sJ>eL Unit;ed 
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of T'anzrtc!lei, United States 
of America, Upper Volta~ Venezuela, Yeme~1~ Yugos1Er\7 .. ia, Zaire~ 
Zambia. 

1/ Subsequently 
voting, it would 

the delegation of Burma st r~h"l that, had it been present at 
have abstained. I . .. 



A/9909 
English 
Page 4 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Israel, Norway, Sweden. 

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

10. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone in the region of the Middle East 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the question of the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone in the region of the Middle East, 

Desiring to contribute to the maintenance of int~rnational peace and security 
by bolstering and expanding the existing regional and global structures for the. 
prohibition and/or prevention of the further spread of nuclear weapons, 

Realizing that the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones with an adequate 
system of safeguards could accelerate the process towards nuclear disarmament and 
the ultimate goal of general and complete disarmament under effective international 
control, 

Recalling the resolution adopted by the Council of the League of Arab States 
at its sixty-second session, held in Cairo from 1 to 4 September 1974, on this 
subject, 

Recalling the message sent by His Imperial Majesty the Shahanshah of Iran on 
16 September 1974 on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region 
of the Middle East, ~/ 

Considering that the establishment of zones free from nuclear weapons, on the 
initiative of the States situated within each zone concerned, is one of the measures 
which can contribute most effectively to halting the proliferation of those 
instruments of mass destruction and to promoting progress towards nuclear 
disarmament, with the goal of total destruction of all nuclear weapons and their 
means of delivery, 

Hindful of political conditions particular to the region of the Middle East 
and of the potential danger emanating therefrom, which would be further aggravated 
by the introduction of nuclear weapons in the area, 

Conscious, therefore, of the need t.o keep the countries of the region from 
becoming involved in a ruinous nuclear arms race 3 

~~ A/9693/Add.3. 

/ ... 



A/9909 
English 
Page 5 

Recallin~ the Declaration on Denuclearization of Africa issued by the Assembly 
of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity in July 1964, 

Notin~ that establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East would contribute effectively to the realization of aims enunciated in 
the above-mentioned Declaration on Denuclearization of Africa, 

Recallin~ the notable achievement of the countries of Latin America in 
establishing a nuclear-free zone, 

Also recalling resolution B of the Conference of Non-Nuclear-Weapon States, 
convened at Geneva on 29 August 1968, in which the Conference recommended that 
non-nuclear-weapon States not comprised in the Latin American nuclear-free zone 
should study the possibility and desirability of establishing military 
denuclearization of their respective zones, 

Recalling the aims pursued by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons 21 and, in particular, the goal of preventing the further spread of 
nuclear weapons, 

Recalling resolution 2373 (XXII) of 12 June 1968, in which it expressed the 
hope for the widest possible adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons by both nuclear-weapon and non-nuclear-weapon States, 

1. Commends the idea of the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in 
the region of the Middle East; 

2. Considers that, in order to advance the idea of a nuclear-weapon-free zone 
in the region of the Middle East, it is indispensable that all parties concerned in 
the area proclaim solemnly and immediately their intention to refrain, on a 
reciprocal basis, from producing, testing, obtaining, acquiring or in any other 
way possessing nuclear weapons; 

3. Calls upon the parties concerned in the area to accede to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons; 

4. · Ex-presses the hope that all States and, in particular, the nuclear-
weapon States, will lend their full co-operation for the effective realization of 
the aims of this resolution; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to ascertain the views of the parties 
concerned with respect to the implementation of the present resolution, in 
particular, with regard to its paragraphs 2 and 3, and to report to the Security 
Council at an early date and, subsequently, to the General Assembly at its thirtieth 
session; 

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session the 
item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the 
Middle East". 

2/ General Assembly resolution 2373 (XXII), annex. 




