








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/9917 
6 December 1974 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Twenty-ninth session 
Agenda iten 62 

NATIONAL EXPERIENCE IN ACHIEVING FAR-REACHING SOCIAL AND 
ECONOMIC CHANGES FOR THE PURPOSE OF SOCIAL PROGRESS 

Report of the Third Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Dietrich von KYAVI (?eJ.eral Republic of Germany) 

CONTENTS 

Paragraphs Page 

I. INTRODUCTION • • • . • • . • • • • l - 4 2 

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS 5 - 12 3 

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE 13 9 

74-34509 / ... 



A/9917 
English 
Page 2 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. The General Assembly, at its 2237th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1974, 
allocated to the Third Committee agenda item 62, entitled "National experience in 
achieving far-reaching social and economic changes for the purpose of social 
progress". 

2. The Committee considered this item at its 2092nd, 2095th, 2097th and 
2103rd meetings, on 18, 21, 22 and 29 November 1974. The summary records of these 
meetings (A/C.3/SR.2092, 2095, 2097 and 2103) contain the views expressed by 
representatives of Member States on the item. 

3. The Committee had before it a report of the Secretary-General on national 
and international activities in the field of social indicators (A/9794) submitted 
in pursuance of Economic and Social Council resolution 1841 (LVI) of 15 May 1974, 
by which the Council requested the Secretary-General to make available to the 
General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session an interim report on a study of 
current national and international activities in the field of social indicators 
to be submitted to the Commission for Social Development at its twenty-fourth 
session, to the Committee for Development Planning at its eleventh session and 
to the Committee on Review and Appraisal at its third session, the report to be 
considered by the Economic and Social Council at its fifty-eighth session. 

4. The Assistant Director for Human Resources Development, Centre for 
Development Planning, Projections and Policies of the Department of Economic and 
Social Affairs, introduced the item at the Committee's 2092nd meeting on 
18 November. 

/ ... 



A/9917 
English 
Page 3 

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLU'riONS 

A. Draft resolution A/C. 3/L. 2134 

5. At the 2097th meeting, on 22 November, the representative of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced a draft resolution 
(A/C.3/L.2134) which read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Considering that the reports called for in Economic and Social Council 
resolutions 1746 (LIV) and 1841 (LVI) are still in the course of preparation 
and will be considered by the Commission for Social Development at its 
twenty-fourth session in January 1975, 

"Recalling General Assembly resolution 2771 (XXVI) which calls for 
a report on the world social situation to be discussed at the thirtieth 
session of the General Assembly, 

"Bearing in mind that national experience ~n achieving far-reaching 
social and economic changes for the purpose of social progress is an 
important component of the world social situation and will be included in 
the report of the Secretary-General on this subject, 

"Decides to defer consideration of the item entitled 'National 
experience in achieving far-reaching social and economic changes for the 
purpose of social progress' to the thirtieth session of the General 
Assembly, to be considered as part of the item entitled 'World social 
situation'." 

6. At its 2103rd meeting, on 29 November, the Committee had before it an 
amendment (A/C.3/L.2138) to draft resolution A/C.3/L.2134 which was sponsored by 
Algeria, Peru and Yugoslavia. The amendment called fer replacing the operative 
paragraph by the following text: 

"Decides to take up consideration of the item entitled 'National 
experience in achieving far-reaching social and economic changes for the 
purpose of social progress' at the thirtieth session of the General 
Assembly." 

7. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland withdrew draft resolution A/C.3/L.2134. 

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/L.2135 

8. At the 2097th meeting, on 22 November, the representative of Czechoslovakia 
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2135) sponsored by Czechoslovakia, the 

I . .. 



A/99ll 
E'r:glish 
Pae;e 4 

l}erman De11oc_x:atic llepublie and the Union of Soviec Socialist Republics. The 
text read as fo.llows: 

nThe General Assembly~ 

"l'h~ing Economic and Social Council resolutions l58l A (L) and 
l667 (i.-;r) ,-which attach great importance to appropriate fundamental 
str-J..ctural socio-economic changes in countries for the purpose of achieving 
social progress and development and to this end consider it appropriate to 
study the experience of various countries of the world in this field, 

"Bearing in mind Economic and Social Ccc:J.cil resolution l746 (LIV) in 
whicr" it was pointed out that the strengthening of national independence and 
ti.1e achievement of the ultimate goals of social progress depend fundamentally 
on. in~.:;ernal basic social changes for purposes of strengthening national 
i::1dependence~ achieving the derc.ocratization of society and improving social 
<'.LTli economic structures, and on the reaffirmation of the principle of the 
i:;::tadmissibility of external interference in any form') including interference 
-by ·~,ransnational corporations::~ 

''Hoti!.l£ the report of the Secretary-General l/ prepared on the basis 
s:Z:' rE::'plies by' Governments to his questionnaire on national experience 1n 
achi_cving far-reaching social and economic changes for the purpose of 
social p:r:·ogres s ~ 

~··convinced that peaceful coexistence~ and friendly co-operation among 
States should ]remote conditions for economic and socia.l progressj 

"Taking into consideration the importance of the implementation of the 
principles, aims and methods of achieving social progress recommended in the 
Declaration on Social Progress and Development,~/ 

nB.ecalli.ng that the Declaration on Social Progress and Development 
recmmne::.1ds that countries should promote den::ocratically based social and 
st:('·u.ctural reforms and changes., 

11
~eaffirming that each country has the sovereign right to adopt the 

economic and soc:Lal system which it regards appropriate for its own 
development ~ 

11 Sharing the concern of many countries over insufficient rates of 
their economic and social development., 

l/ E/Cl~.5/478 and fldd.l and Acld.l/Cor::-.J. and 2, Add.2 and Add.2/Corr.1, 
Add. 3-a.nd Add, 3/Corr .l, Add.l! . 

. ~/ Ceneral Assembly rescll::.t.ion 25;~2 (XXIV). 

/ ... 



A/99lT 
English 
Page 5 

·,·,1. Stresses the importance of fundamental internal dem~Jcratic social 
and economic changes designed to safeguard national independence and to 
ensure a speedy improvement of the \<Tell--being of the population; 

n2. 
carry out 
progress; 

Reaffirm~ the right of 
fundamental socia~ and 

each State to nationalization in order to 
economic changes for the purpose of social 

\'oJ. Recommends that measures should be taken at all levels to ensure 
more active participation by the entire population in preparation and 
execution of economic and social development policies and programmes designed 
to achieve social and economic progregs~ taking into account the experience 
of various countries in this field; 

114" Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations Development 
Programme to hold~ within the programme of advisory services~ interregional 
and regional seminars to study the national experience of developing and 
developed countries in carrying out far-reaching ~~ocial and economic changes 
for the purpose of social progress; 

"5. Recommends that the regional economic COIJL'Ilissions should consider 
this problem at their sessions~ 

t·
16. Endorses_ the action taken ·oy the Economic and Social Council 

requesting the Commisnicn for Social Development to continue the study of 
national experience in carryi~g out fundamental social and economic changes 
for the :9urpose of soeial• progress~. 

"T. Requesi;_<'l_ the Secretary-General to give 2pproprictte attention to 
naticne.l experience in ach:i.eving far-.. .yeaching socj_al and economic changes for 
the purpose of social progress in his reportD on the world social situation •. ~ 

9. At the 2l03rd Y!leeting~ on 29 November'-' tt2 representative of Czechoslovakia 
introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2135/Rev.l) s:ponso:red by Cuba, 
CzeclJoslovak~a') the German f,e_mocrati_c Re1Jl?.:_blic and the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics. The text reaC_ as follows: 

"Noting Economic anC Socia:!_ Council x·esoJ_ut:Lcns 1581 A (L) and 1667 (LII)" 
wtich attach great importance to apprCJpriate fundamental structura2. socio-
economic changes in countries for the }?J.rpose of' a.chiev:ing social progress 
and development and to -::-.his cn.C: consider ~-t rJ.pp:coprie,-::.e :::.o study the 
experience of various countries of the world in this ~ield, 

.~Bearing in mind Economic a::Jd_ Socia1 Coune:~l reso2.ution 1'746 (LIV) in 
whicO. it was pointed ~ut that the strengthening of national indepen.dence and_ 
the achievement of the ultimate goa:::._s o:f:' social proGress depend fundamentaJ.\:r 
on internal basic sociG..l changes ~::'or purposes o~ s-:.:.engthening national 
independence:> achieving the dao.ocyo::;,tiz.::t+:;io:.I of Gocic:t~y and improving social 

I . .. 



'· 

A/9917 
English 
Page 6 

and economic structures, and on the reaffirmation of the principle of the 
inadmissibility of external interference in any form, including interference 
by transnational corporations, 

"Noting the report of the Secretary-General )_/ prepared on the basis of 
replies by Governments to his questionnaire on national experience in 
achieving far-reaching social and economic changes for the purpose of 
social progress, 

"Convinced that peaceful coexistence and friendly co-operation among 
States should promote conditions for economic and social progress, 

"Taking into consideration the importance of the implementation of the 
principles, aims and methods of achieving social progress recommended in the 
Declaration on Social Progress and Development,~/ 

"Recalling that the Declaration. on Social Progress and Development 
recommends that countries should promote democratically based social and 
structural reforms and changes, 

''Sharing the concern of many countries over insufficient rates of their 
economic and social development~ 

"l. Reaffirms that each State has the sovereign right to adopt the 
economic and social system which it regards appropriate for its own 
development; 

. 
"2. Stresses the importance of internal democratic social and economic 

changes designed to safeguard national independence and to ensure a speedy 
improvement of the well-being of the population; 

"3. Reaffirms the importance of the right of every State to exercise 
its permanent sovereignty over all its riches, natural resources and economic 
activities for the purpose of achieving economic and social progress; 

"4. Reaffirms further the right of every State to carry out social and 
economic changes for the purpose of social progress, including nationalization, 
as well as the right to take all appropriate measures in connexion with the 
activities of transnational corporations which it considers detrimental for 
the achievement of economic and social progress; 

"5. Recommends that measures should be taken at all levels to ensure 
more active participation by the entire population in preparation and 
execution of economic and social development policies and programmes designed 

3/ E/CN.5/478 and Add.l and Add.l/Corr.l and 2, Add.2 and Add.2/Corr.l, 
Add. 3-and Add. 3/Corr .1, Add. 4. 

~/General Assembly resolution 2542 (XXIV). 

I . .. 



A/9917 
English 
Page 7 

to achieve social and economic progress, taking into account the experience 
of various countries in this field; 

"6. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations Development 
Programme to hold, within the programme of advisory services, interregional 
and regional seminars to -study the national experience of developing and 
developed countries in carrying out far-reaching social and economic changes 
for the purpose of social progress; 

"7. Recommends that the regional economic commissions should consider 
this problem at their sessions; 

"8. Endorses the action taken by the Economic and Social Council 
requesting the Commission for Social Development to continue the study of 
national experience in carrying out far-reaching social and economic changes 
for the purpose of social progress; 

''9. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive report 
on national experience in achieving far-reaching social and economic changes 
for the purpose of sccial progress to the thirtieth session of the General 
Assembly and to give appropriate attention to this question in his reports 
on the world social situation; 

"10. Decides to consider this item at its thirtieth session as a 
separate item of the agenda." 

10. At the same meeting, the sponsors of the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.3/L.2135/Rev.l) accepted an oral proposal of the representative of Morocco 
to replace the word "various" by the word ''all" in operative paragraph 5. 

ll. The following oral proposals, made at the same meeting, were subsequently put 
to the vote: 

(a) The representative of the Federal Republic of Germany requested the 
deletion of the word "coexistence" in the fourth preambular paragraph; 

(b) The representative of Morocco requested a separate vote on operative 
paragraph 6; 

(c) The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland requested the deletion of the words "to prepare a comprehensive 
report on national experience in achieving far-reaching social and economic changes 
for the purpose of social progress to the thirtieth session of the General Assembly 
and" in operative paragraph 9; 

(d) The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland requested the deletion of the words ''a separate item of the agenda" in 
operative paragraph 10 and the substitution of the words ''part of the item 
entitled 'World social situation'. " 

I .. . 



A/9917 
English 
Page 8 

12. At the= 2l03rd meeting" on 29 November, the Committee voted on the revised 
draft resol-ution (_pjC~3/L.2l35/Rev.l), as orally amended~ and on tbe oral 
amendments thereto (see para. ll above). The voting was ae follows: 

(a) The proposal to delete the t..vord '~coexistencen in the fourth preambular 
paragraph was rejected by 43 votes to 25, with 32 abstent,ions; 

(b) Operative paragraph 6 was retained by 59 votes to 5' with 34 abstentions; 

(c) Operative paragraph 9 i.oras retained by 64 votes to l4J with 
23 abstentions; 

(d) The oral amendment to operative paragraph 10 was rejected by 1+5 votes 
to 2T, with 30 abstentions; 

(e) 'rl1e revised draft resolution (A/C. 3/1.2135/Rev.l) as a whole, as orally 
amended, was adopted by 85 votes to none, with 23 abstentions (see para. 13 below). 

/ ... 



III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD CO!$ITTTEE 

A/9917 
English 
Page 9 

13. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

National e~erience in achieving far-reaching social and 
economic changes for the purpose of social progress 

The General Assembly, 

Noting Economic and Social Council resolutions 1581 A (L) of 21 May 1971 and 
1667 (LII) of l June 1972, which attach great importance to appropriate fundamental 
structural socio-economic changes in countries for the purpose of achieving social 
progress and development and, to this end, consider it appropriate to study the 
experience of various countries of the world in this field"J 

Bearing in mind Economic and Social Council resolution 1746 (LIV) of 
16 May 1973 in which it was pointed out that the strengthening of national 
independence and the achievement of the ultimate goals of social progress depend 
fundamentally on interna~ oasic social changes for purposes of strengthenin6 
national independence, achieving the democratization of society and improving 
social and economic struc-Cures ~ and on the reaffirmation of the principle of the 
inadmissibility of external interference in any form, including interference by 
transnational corporations, 

Noting the report of the Secretary-General 5/ prepared on the basis of replies 
by C:rOvernments to his questionnaire on national ;xperience in achieving far-reaching 
social and economic changes for the purpose of social progress, 

Convinced that peacefuJ_ coexistence and friendly co-operation arwng States 
should promote conditions for economic and social progress, 

Taking into consideration the im~ortance of the implementation of the 
principles-:-aims 8.nd methods of achieving social progress recommended in the 
Declaration on Social Progress and Development, i/ 

Recalling tt_._at the Declaration on Social Progress and Develop]~ent recoTI'l.mends 
that countries should promote democratically-base<). social and structural reforms 
and changes, 

Sharing the concern of many countries over insufficient rates of their 
ecqnomic and social development, 

l. Reaffirms that each State has the sovereign right to adopt the economic 
and social-system which it regards appropriate for its own development; 

5/ E/CN.5/478 and Add.l and Add.l/Corr.l and 2, Add.2 and Add.2/Corr.l, 
Add. 3---and Add. 3/Corr.l, Add. 1+. 

§) General J\sserr;bly resolution 2542 (XXIV). 
/ ... 



A/9917 
English 
Page 10 

2. Stresses the importance of internal democratic social and economic 
changes designed to safeguard national independence and to ensure a speedy 
improvement of the well-being of the population; 

3. Reaffirms the importance of the right of every State to exercise its 
permanent sovereignty over all its riches, natural resources and economic 
activities for the purpose of achieving economic and social progress; 

4. Reaffirms further the right of every State to carry out social and 
economic changes for the purpose of social progress, including nationalization, as 
well as the right to take all appropriate measures in connexion with the activities 
of transnational corporations which it considers detrimental to the achievement of 
economic and social progress; 

5. Recommends that measures should be taken at all levels to ensure more 
active participation 'by the entire population in preparation and execution of 
economic and social development policies and programmes designed to achieve social 
and economic progress, taking into account the experience of all countries in this 
field; 

6. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations Development 
Programme to hold, within the programme of advisory services, interregional and 
regional seminars to study the national experience of developing and developed 
countries in carrying out far-reaching social and economic changes for the purpose 
of social progress; 

7. Recommends that the regional economic commissions should consider this 
problem at their sessions; 

8. Endorses the action taken by the Economic and Social Council requesting 
the Commission for Social Development to continue the study of national experience 
in carrying out far-reaching social and economic changes for the purpose of social 
progress; 1f 

9. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on 
national experience in achieving far-reaching social and economic changes for the 
purpose of social progress to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session and 
to give appropriate attention to this question in his reports on the world social 
situation; 

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtieth session a 
separate item entitled "National experience in achieving far-reaching social and 
economic changes for the purpose of social progress". 

1/ Economic and Social Council resolution 1746 (LIV). 




