
























































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/67/L.55/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
20 November 2012 
 
Original: English 

 

12-59948 (E)    211112 
*1259948*   

Sixty-seventh session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 67 (a) 
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia  
and related intolerance 

 
 
 

  Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guinea, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic, Lebanon, Mauritania, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, 
Pakistan, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Venezuela 
(Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam and Zimbabwe: revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Glorification of Nazism: inadmissibility of certain practices that 
contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights,1 the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination3 
and other relevant human rights instruments, 

 Recalling the provisions of Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2004/16 
of 16 April 20044 and 2005/5 of 14 April 20055 and relevant Human Rights Council 
resolutions, in particular resolutions 7/34 of 28 March 2008,6 18/15 of 29 
September 20117 and 21/33 of 28 September 2012, as well as General Assembly 
resolutions 60/143 of 16 December 2005, 61/147 of 19 December 2006, 62/142 of 

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464. 
 4  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), 

chap. II, sect. A. 
 5  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/2005/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A. 
 6  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), 

chap. II. 
 7  Ibid., Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 53A (A/66/53/Add.1 and Corr.1), chap. II. 



A/C.3/67/L.55/Rev.1  
 

12-59948 2 
 

18 December 2007, 63/162 of 18 December 2008, 64/147 of 18 December 2009, 
65/199 of  
21 December 2010 and 66/143 of 19 December 2011 on this issue and resolutions 
61/149 of 19 December 2006, 62/220 of 22 December 2007, 63/242 of 24 December 
2008, 64/148 of 18 December 2009, 65/240 of 24 December 2010 and 66/144 of  
19 December 2011, entitled “Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive 
implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action”, 

 Recalling also the Charter of the Nuremberg Tribunal and the Judgement of 
the Tribunal, which recognized as criminal, inter alia, the SS organization and all its 
integral parts, including the Waffen SS, through its officially accepted members 
implicated in or with knowledge of the commission of war crimes and crimes 
against humanity connected with the Second World War, as well as other relevant 
provisions of the Charter and the Judgement, 

 Recalling further the relevant provisions of the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance on 8 September 2001,8 in 
particular paragraph 2 of the Declaration and paragraph 86 of the Programme of 
Action, as well as the relevant provisions of the outcome document of the Durban 
Review Conference, of 24 April 2009,9 in particular paragraphs 11 and 54, 

 Alarmed, in this regard, at the spread in many parts of the world of various 
extremist political parties, movements and groups, including neo-Nazis and 
skinhead groups, as well as similar extremist ideological movements, 

 Deeply concerned by all recent manifestations of violence and terrorism 
incited by violent nationalism, racism, xenophobia and related intolerance, 

 1. Reaffirms the relevant provisions of the Durban Declaration8 and of the 
outcome document of the Durban Review Conference,9 in which States condemned 
the persistence and resurgence of neo-Nazism, neo-Fascism and violent nationalist 
ideologies based on racial and national prejudice and stated that those phenomena 
could never be justified in any instance or in any circumstances; 

 2. Takes note of the report of the Special Rapporteur on contemporary 
forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance prepared 
in accordance with the request contained in General Assembly resolution 66/143;10  

 3. Expresses its appreciation to the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights for her commitment to maintaining the fight against racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance as one of the priority activities of 
her Office; 

 4. Expresses deep concern about the glorification of the Nazi movement 
and former members of the Waffen SS organization, including by erecting 
monuments and memorials and holding public demonstrations in the name of the 
glorification of the Nazi past, the Nazi movement and neo-Nazism, as well as by 
declaring or attempting to declare such members and those who fought against the 

__________________ 

 8  See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I. 
 9  See A/CONF.211/8, chap. I. 
 10  See A/67/328. 



 A/C.3/67/L.55/Rev.1
 

3 12-59948 
 

anti-Hitler coalition and collaborated with the Nazi movement participants in 
national liberation movements; 

 5. Expresses concern at recurring attempts to desecrate or demolish 
monuments erected in remembrance of those who fought against Nazism during the 
Second World War, as well as to unlawfully exhume or remove the remains of such 
persons, and in this regard urges States to fully comply with their relevant 
obligations, inter alia, under article 34 of Additional Protocol I to the Geneva 
Conventions of 1949;11  

 6. Notes with concern the increase in the number of racist incidents 
worldwide, including the rise of skinhead groups, which have been responsible for 
many of these incidents, as well as the resurgence of racist and xenophobic violence 
targeting members of national, ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities; 

 7. Reaffirms that such acts may be qualified to fall within the scope of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,3 
that they may not be justified as exercises of the rights to freedom of peaceful 
assembly and of association as well as the rights to freedom of opinion and 
expression, and that they may fall within the scope of article 20 of the International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and may legitimately be restricted as set out 
in articles 19, 21 and 22 of the Covenant; 

 8. Expresses deep concern at attempts of commercial advertising aimed at 
exploiting the sufferings of the victims of war crimes and crimes against humanity 
committed during the Second World War by the Nazi regime; 

 9. Stresses that the practices described above do injustice to the memory of 
the countless victims of crimes against humanity committed in the Second World 
War, in particular those committed by the SS organization and by those who fought 
against the anti-Hitler coalition and collaborated with the Nazi movement, and 
negatively influence children and young people, and that failure by States to 
effectively address such practices is incompatible with the obligations of States 
Members of the United Nations under its Charter and is incompatible with the 
purposes and principles of the Organization; 

 10. Also stresses that such practices fuel contemporary forms of racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and contribute to the 
spread and multiplication of various extremist political parties, movements and 
groups, including neo-Nazis and skinhead groups, and in this regard calls for 
increased vigilance; 

 11. Emphasizes the need to take the measures necessary to put an end to the 
practices described above, and calls upon States to take more effective measures in 
accordance with international human rights law to combat those phenomena and the 
extremist movements, which pose a real threat to democratic values; 

 12. Encourages States to adopt further measures to provide training to the 
police and other law enforcement bodies on the ideologies of extremist political 
parties, movements and groups whose advocacy constitutes incitement to racist and 
xenophobic violence and to strengthen their capacity to address racist and 
xenophobic crimes and to bring to justice those responsible for such crimes; 

__________________ 

 11  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1125, No. 17512. 



A/C.3/67/L.55/Rev.1  
 

12-59948 4 
 

 13. Takes note of the recommendation of the Special Rapporteur regarding 
the responsibility of political leaders and parties in relation to messages that incite 
racial discrimination or xenophobia; 

 14. Recalls the recommendation of the Special Rapporteur to introduce into 
domestic criminal law a provision according to which committing an offence with 
racist or xenophobic motivations or aims constitutes an aggravating circumstance 
allowing for enhanced penalties, and encourages those States whose legislation does 
not contain such provisions to consider that recommendation; 

 15. Reaffirms, in this regard, the particular importance of all forms of 
education, including human rights education, as a complement to legislative 
measures, as outlined by the Special Rapporteur; 

 16. Emphasizes the recommendation made by the Special Rapporteur to the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session regarding the importance of history 
classes in teaching the dramatic events and human suffering that resulted from the 
ideologies of Nazism and Fascism; 

 17. Stresses the importance of other positive measures and initiatives aimed 
at bringing communities together and providing them with space for genuine 
dialogue, such as round tables, working groups and seminars, including training 
seminars for State agents and media professionals, as well as awareness-raising 
activities, especially those initiated by civil society representatives which require 
continued State support; 

 18. Calls upon States to continue to invest in education, inter alia, in order to 
transform attitudes and correct ideas of racial hierarchies and superiority promoted 
by extremist political parties, movements and groups and counter their negative 
influence; 

 19. Underlines the potentially positive role that relevant United Nations 
entities and programmes, in particular the United Nations Educational, Scientific 
and Cultural Organization, can play in the aforementioned areas; 

 20. Reaffirms article 4 of the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Racial Discrimination, in which States parties to that instrument 
condemn all propaganda and all organizations that are based on ideas or theories of 
superiority of one race or group of persons of one colour or ethnic origin, or that 
attempt to justify or promote racial hatred and discrimination in any form, and 
undertake to adopt immediate and positive measures designed to eradicate all 
incitement to, or acts of, such discrimination and, to that end, with due regard to the 
principles embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the rights 
expressly set forth in article 5 of this Convention, inter alia: 

 (a) Shall declare as an offence punishable by law all dissemination of ideas 
based on racial superiority or hatred, and incitement to racial discrimination, as well 
as all acts of violence or incitement to such acts against any race or group of persons 
of another colour or ethnic origin, and also the provision of any assistance to racist 
activities, including the financing thereof; 

 (b) Shall declare illegal and prohibit organizations, and organized and all 
other propaganda activities, which promote and incite racial discrimination, and 
shall recognize participation in such organizations or activities as an offence 
punishable by law; 



 A/C.3/67/L.55/Rev.1
 

5 12-59948 
 

 (c) Shall not permit public authorities or public institutions, national or 
local, to promote or incite racial discrimination; 

 21. Also reaffirms that, as underlined in paragraph 13 of the outcome 
document of the Durban Review Conference, any advocacy of national, racial or 
religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence 
should be prohibited by law, that all dissemination of ideas based on racial 
superiority or hatred, or incitement to racial discrimination, as well as all acts of 
violence or incitement to such acts, shall be declared offences punishable by law, in 
accordance with the international obligations of States, and that these prohibitions 
are consistent with freedom of opinion and expression; 

 22. Recognizes the positive role that the exercise of the right to freedom of 
opinion and expression, as well as full respect for the freedom to seek, receive and 
impart information, including through the Internet, can play in combating racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance; 

 23. Expresses concern about the use of the Internet to propagate racism, 
racial hatred, xenophobia, racial discrimination and related intolerance, and in this 
regard calls upon States parties to the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights to implement fully articles 19 and 20 of the Covenant, which guarantee the 
right to freedom of expression and outline grounds on which the exercise of this 
right can be legitimately restricted; 

 24. Recognizes the need to promote the use of new information and 
communications technologies, including the Internet, to contribute to the fight 
against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance; 

 25. Encourages those States that have made reservations to article 4 of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 
to give serious consideration to withdrawing such reservations as a matter of 
priority, as stressed by the Special Rapporteur;  

 26. Notes the importance of strengthening cooperation at the regional and 
international levels with the aim of countering all manifestations of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, in particular regarding issues 
raised in the present resolution; 

 27. Stresses the importance of cooperating closely with civil society and 
international and regional human rights mechanisms in order to counter effectively 
all manifestations of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance, as well as extremist political parties, movements and groups, including 
neo-Nazis and skinhead groups, and other similar extremist ideological movements 
that incite racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance; 

 28. Encourages States parties to the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination to ensure that their legislation 
incorporates the provisions of the Convention, including those of article 4; 

 29. Encourages States to adopt the legislation necessary to combat racism 
while ensuring that the definition of racial discrimination set out therein complies 
with article 1 of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Racial Discrimination; 



A/C.3/67/L.55/Rev.1  
 

12-59948 6 
 

 30. Recalls that any legislative or constitutional measures adopted with a 
view to countering extremist political parties, movements and groups, including 
neo-Nazis and skinhead groups, and similar extremist ideological movements should 
be in conformity with the relevant international human rights norms; 

 31. Also recalls the request of the Commission on Human Rights, in its 
resolution 2005/5,5 that the Special Rapporteur continue to reflect on this issue, 
make relevant recommendations in his future reports and seek and take into account 
in this regard the views of Governments and non-governmental organizations; 

 32. Requests the Special Rapporteur to prepare, for submission to the 
General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session and to the Human Rights Council at its 
twenty-third session, reports on the implementation of the present resolution, in 
particular regarding paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 16 and 17 thereof, based on the views 
collected in accordance with the request of the Commission on Human Rights, as 
recalled in paragraph 31 above; 

 33. Expresses its appreciation to those Governments that have provided 
information to the Special Rapporteur in the course of the preparation of his report 
to the General Assembly, and notes the increase in such contributions received from 
States; 

 34. Stresses that such information is important for the sharing of experiences 
and best practices in the fight against extremist political parties, movements and 
groups, including neo-Nazis and skinhead groups, and other extremist ideological 
movements that incite racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance; 

 35. Encourages Governments and non-governmental organizations to 
cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur in the exercise of the tasks outlined in 
paragraph 31 above; 

 36. Encourages Governments, non-governmental organizations and relevant 
actors to disseminate, as widely as possible, information regarding the contents of 
and the principles outlined in the present resolution, including through the media, 
but not limited to it; 

 37. Decides to remain seized of the issue. 

 


