






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/62/L.20/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
16 November 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-60256 (E)  191107   
*0760256* 

Sixty-second session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 63 (a) 
Advancement of women: advancement of women 

 
 
 

  Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria, 
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, 
France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, 
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Mali, 
Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Uganda and United Republic of Tanzania: revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination 
against Women 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 60/230 of 23 December 2005 and its previous 
resolutions on the elimination of discrimination against women, 

 Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in 
Articles 1 and 55 of the Charter, is to promote universal respect for human rights 
and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including 
distinction as to sex, 

 Reiterating the need to intensify efforts to eliminate all forms of 
discrimination against women throughout the world, 

 Affirming that women and men should participate equally in social, economic 
and political development, should contribute equally to such development and 
should share equally in improved conditions of life, 

 Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the 
World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 in which the Conference 
reaffirmed that the human rights of women and the girl child were an inalienable, 
integral and indivisible part of universal human rights,  

__________________ 

 1  A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III. 



A/C.3/62/L.20/Rev.1  
 

07-60256 2 
 

 Acknowledging the need for a comprehensive and integrated approach to the 
promotion and protection of the human rights of women, which includes the 
integration of the human rights of women into the mainstream of United Nations 
activities system-wide, 

 Reaffirming the Beijing Declaration2 and Platform for Action3 and the 
outcome documents4 of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly 
entitled “Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first 
century”, in particular those paragraphs concerning the Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women5 and the Optional 
Protocol thereto,6  

 Welcoming the declaration of the Commission on the Status of Women on the 
occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women,7 in 
which the Commission recognizes that the implementation of the Beijing 
Declaration and Platform for Action and the fulfilment of the obligations under the 
Convention are mutually reinforcing in achieving gender equality and the 
empowerment of women,  

 Recalling that, in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,8 Heads of State 
and Government resolved to implement the Convention, and recalling also that the 
2005 World Summit Outcome9 reaffirmed that gender equality and the promotion 
and protection of the full enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms 
for all are essential to advance development and peace and security, 

 Recognizing that the equal enjoyment by women of all human rights and 
fundamental freedoms will promote the realization of the rights of the child, bearing 
in mind the special needs of girls, and acknowledging the mutual reinforcement of 
the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child10 and 
the Optional Protocols thereto,11  

 Noting that on 23 July 2007, at its 792nd meeting, the Committee marked the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of its work,  

 Bearing in mind the recommendation of the Committee that national reports 
should contain information on the implementation of the Beijing Platform for 
Action, in accordance with paragraph 323 of the Platform, 

__________________ 

 2  Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United 
Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I. 

 3  Ibid., annex II. 
 4  Resolution S-23/2, annex; and resolution S-23/3, annex. 
 5  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, No. 20378. 
 6  Ibid., vol. 2131, No. 20378. 
 7  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 7 and 

corrigendum (E/2005/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. A; see also Economic and Social Council 
decision 2005/232. 

 8  See resolution 55/2. 
 9  See resolution 60/1. 
 10  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 11  Ibid., vol. 2171, No. 27531; and ibid., vol. 2173, No. 27531. 



 A/C.3/62/L.20/Rev.1
 

3 07-60256 
 

 Having considered the reports of the Committee on its thirty-fourth, thirty-fifth 
and thirty-sixth12 and thirty-seventh, thirty-eighth and thirty-ninth13 sessions, 

 Expressing concern at the great number of reports that are overdue (two 
hundred and fifteen), in particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to 
the full implementation of the Convention, 

 1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;14  

 2. Also welcomes the growing number of States parties to the Convention,5 
which now stands at one hundred and eighty-five, while expressing disappointment 
that universal ratification of the Convention was not achieved by 2000, and urges all 
States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Convention to do so; 

 3. Further welcomes the growing number of States parties to the Optional 
Protocol to the Convention,6 which now stands at eighty-nine, and urges other States 
parties to the Convention to consider signing and ratifying or acceding to the 
Optional Protocol;  

 4. Urges States parties to comply fully with their obligations under the 
Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto and to take into consideration the 
concluding comments as well as the general recommendations of the Committee on 
the Elimination of Discrimination against Women; 

 5. Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system, within 
their mandates, as well as Governments and intergovernmental and 
non-governmental organizations, in particular women’s organizations, as 
appropriate, to strengthen assistance to States parties, upon their request, in 
implementing the Convention;  

 6. Notes that some States parties have modified their reservations, expresses 
satisfaction that some reservations have been withdrawn, and urges States parties to 
limit the extent of any reservations that they lodge to the Convention, to formulate 
any such reservations as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no 
reservations are incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention, to 
review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to 
withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention;  

 7. Welcomes the adoption by the Committee of revised reporting 
guidelines,15 and urges States parties to adhere to the revised guidelines, in 
particular with regard to the content and length of reports; 

 8. Recalls the great number of overdue reports, in particular initial reports, 
and urges States parties to the Convention to make every possible effort to submit 
their reports on the implementation of the Convention in a timely manner, in 
accordance with article 18 thereof;  

__________________ 

 12  Officials Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/61/38). 
 13  Ibid., Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/62/38). 
 14  A/62/290. 
 15  Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/57/38), 

part two, annex. 



A/C.3/62/L.20/Rev.1  
 

07-60256 4 
 

 9. Also recalls its resolution 50/202 of 22 December 1995, in which it took 
note with approval of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention, 
which has yet to enter into force; 

 10. Strongly urges States parties to the Convention to take appropriate 
measures so that acceptance of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the 
Convention by a two-thirds majority of States parties can be reached as soon as 
possible and the amendment can enter into force; 

 11. Expresses its appreciation for the efforts made by the Committee to 
improve the efficiency of its working methods, inter alia, pertaining to its meetings 
in parallel chambers following its fifth informal meeting held in Berlin from 
2 to 4 May 2006,16 and invites the Committee to consider further improvements to 
its working methods, especially with the aim of achieving timely and effective 
consideration of reports submitted by States parties;  

 12. Notes decision 39/I of the Committee,17 in which it requested the 
General Assembly to authorize an extension of its meeting time; 

 13. Also notes that a backlog of reports of thirty-four States parties to be 
considered by the Committee persists;  

 14. Decides to authorize the Committee to hold three annual sessions of three 
weeks each, with a one-week pre-sessional working group for each session, for an 
interim period effective from January 2010, pending the entry into force of the 
amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention, and to authorize three 
annual sessions of the Working Group on Communications under the Optional 
Protocol to the Convention;  

 15. Also decides to authorize the Committee to meet on an exceptional and 
temporary basis in the biennium 2008-2009 in a total of five sessions, of which 
three would occur in parallel chambers, taking due account of equitable 
geographical distribution, for the purpose of considering reports of States parties 
submitted under article 18 of the Convention; and further decides that two of the 
five sessions will take place at United Nations Headquarters in New York; 

 16. Urges the Committee to evaluate progress, and decides to assess the 
situation with regard to the location of the Committee’s sessions after two years, 
also taking into account the wider context of treaty body reform;  

 17. Encourages the Secretariat to extend further technical assistance to States 
parties, upon their request, to strengthen their capacity in the preparation of reports, 
in particular initial reports, and invites Governments to contribute to those efforts; 

 18. Invites States parties to make use of the technical assistance provided by 
the Secretariat to facilitate the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports;  

 19. Encourages the continued participation of members of the Committee in 
inter-committee meetings and meetings of persons chairing the human rights treaty 
bodies, including those on methods of work relating to the State reporting system; 

 20. Encourages the Committee, within its mandate, to continue to contribute 
to the efforts to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the treaty bodies;  

__________________ 

 16  Ibid., Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/61/38). 
 17  Ibid., Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/62/38), part three, chap. I. 



 A/C.3/62/L.20/Rev.1
 

5 07-60256 
 

 21. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with General Assembly 
resolution 54/4 of 6 October 1999, to provide the resources, including staff and 
facilities, necessary for the effective functioning of the Committee within its full 
mandate, taking into account in particular the entry into force of the Optional 
Protocol to the Convention;  

 22. Urges Governments, organizations and bodies of the United Nations 
system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to disseminate 
the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;  

 23. Encourages States parties to disseminate the concluding comments 
adopted in relation to the consideration of their reports, as well as the general 
recommendations of the Committee; 

 24. Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system to continue 
to build women’s knowledge and understanding of and capacity to utilize human 
rights instruments, in particular the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto; 

 25. Urges the specialized agencies, at the invitation of the Committee, to 
submit reports on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the 
scope of their activities; 

 26. Welcomes the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the 
work of the Committee;  

 27. Invites the Chairperson of the Committee on the Elimination of 
Discrimination against Women to address the General Assembly at its sixty-third 
and sixty-fourth sessions under the item on the advancement of women;  

 28. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth session a report on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the implementation of the present 
resolution. 

 


