






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.4/62/L.12

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
14 November 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-59938 (E)    151107  
*0759938* 

Sixty-second session 
Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee) 
Agenda item 32 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine  
Refugees in the Near East 

 
 
 

  Algeria, Bahrain, Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Guinea, 
Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Mauritania, Morocco, Namibia, 
Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sudan, Tunisia, United Arab 
Emirates, Yemen and Palestine: draft resolution 
 
 

  Operations of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 194 (III) of 11 December 1948, 212 (III) of 
19 November 1948, 302 (IV) of 8 December 1949 and all subsequent related 
resolutions, including its resolution 61/114 of 14 December 2006, 

 Recalling also the relevant Security Council resolutions, 

 Having considered the report of the Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East covering 
the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006,1 

 Taking note of the letter dated 17 June 2007 from the Chairperson of the 
Advisory Commission of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East addressed to the Commissioner-General,2 

 Deeply concerned about the critical financial situation of the Agency, as well 
as about the rising expenditures of the Agency resulting from the deterioration of the 
socio-economic and humanitarian conditions in the region and their significant 
negative impact on the provision of necessary Agency services to the Palestine 
refugees, including its emergency-related and development programmes, 

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/62/13). 
 2  Ibid., p. ix. 



A/C.4/62/L.12  
 

07-59938 2 
 

 Recalling Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations,3 

 Recalling also the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated 
Personnel,4 

 Affirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection 
of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,5 to the Palestinian territory 
occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem,  

 Aware of the continuing needs of the Palestine refugees throughout the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory and in the other fields of operation, namely Jordan, 
Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic,  

 Gravely concerned about the extremely difficult living conditions being faced 
by the Palestine refugees in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East 
Jerusalem, particularly in the refugee camps in the Gaza Strip, resulting, inter alia, 
from the loss of life and injury, the extensive destruction of their shelters, properties 
and vital infrastructure, the displacement of the Palestine refugees, the prolonged 
closures and socio-economic decline,  

 Aware of the extraordinary efforts being undertaken by the Agency for the 
repair or rebuilding of thousands of damaged or destroyed refugee shelters and for 
the provision of shelter and emergency aid for those refugee families internally 
displaced as a result of Israeli military actions, as well as for those refugees affected 
and displaced by the recent crisis in the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp in northern 
Lebanon, 

 Aware also of the valuable work done by the Agency in providing protection to 
the Palestinian people, in particular Palestine refugees,  

 Gravely concerned about the endangerment of the safety of the Agency’s staff 
and about the damage caused to the facilities of the Agency as a result of Israeli 
military operations during the reporting period,  

 Deploring the killing of fourteen Agency staff members by the Israeli 
occupying forces in the Occupied Palestinian Territory since September 2000 and of 
one Agency staff member by the Israeli air force in Lebanon in August 2006,  

 Also deploring the killing and wounding of refugee children, including in the 
Agency’s schools, by the Israeli occupying forces,  

 Expressing deep concern about the policies of closure and severe restrictions 
that continue to be imposed on the movement of persons and goods and the 
continued construction of the wall, contrary to international law, in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, including in and around East Jerusalem, which have gravely 
impacted the socio-economic situation of the Palestine refugees and have greatly 
contributed to the dire humanitarian crisis facing the Palestinian people,  

 Deeply concerned about the continuing imposition of restrictions on the 
freedom of movement and access of the Agency’s staff, vehicles and goods, and the 
harassment and intimidation of the Agency’s staff, which undermine and obstruct 

__________________ 

 3  Resolution 22 A (I). 
 4  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2051, No. 35457. 
 5  Ibid., vol. 75, No. 943. 



 A/C.4/62/L.12
 

3 07-59938 
 

the work of the Agency, including its ability to provide its essential basic and 
emergency services,  

 Recalling the signing, on 13 September 1993, of the Declaration of Principles 
on Interim Self-Government Arrangements by the Government of Israel and the 
Palestine Liberation Organization6 and the subsequent implementation agreements,  

 Aware of the agreement between the Agency and the Government of Israel,  

 Taking note of the agreement reached on 24 June 1994, embodied in an 
exchange of letters between the Agency and the Palestine Liberation Organization,7 

 1. Expresses its appreciation to the Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, as well as 
to all of the staff of the Agency, for their tireless efforts and valuable work, 
particularly in the light of the difficult conditions during the past year; 

 2. Also expresses its appreciation to the Advisory Commission of the 
Agency, and requests it to continue its efforts and to keep the General Assembly 
informed of its activities; 

 3. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Working Group on the 
Financing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in 
the Near East8 and its efforts to assist in ensuring the financial security of the 
Agency, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary services and 
assistance to the Working Group for the conduct of its work; 

 4. Commends the continuing efforts of the Commissioner-General to 
increase the budgetary transparency and efficiency of the Agency, as reflected in the 
Agency’s programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009,9 and the organizational 
reform measures being undertaken to modernize and strengthen the Agency’s 
management and its ability to address the needs of the Palestine refugees; 

 5. Endorses, meanwhile, the efforts of the Commissioner-General to 
continue to provide humanitarian assistance, as far as practicable, on an emergency 
basis, and as a temporary measure, to persons in the area who are internally 
displaced and in serious need of continued assistance as a result of recent incursions 
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and hostilities in Lebanon; 

 6. Acknowledges the important support provided by the host Governments 
to the Agency in the discharge of its duties; 

 7. Encourages the Agency to make further progress in addressing the needs 
and rights of children in its operations in accordance with the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child;10 

 

__________________ 

 6  A/48/486-S/26560, annex. 
 7  Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/49/13), 

annex I. 
 8 A/62/361. 
 9  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 13A 

(A/62/13/Add.1). 
 10  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 



A/C.4/62/L.12  
 

07-59938 4 
 

 8. Also encourages the Agency to also make further progress in addressing 
the needs and rights of women in accordance with the Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;11 

 9. Expresses concern about the temporary relocation of the international 
staff of the Agency from its headquarters in Gaza City and the disruption of 
operations at the headquarters due to the deterioration and instability of the situation 
on the ground; 

 10. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply fully with the 
provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons 
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949;5 

 11. Also calls upon Israel to abide by Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the 
Charter of the United Nations and the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities 
of the United Nations3 in order to ensure the safety of the personnel of the Agency, 
the protection of its institutions and the safeguarding of the security of its facilities 
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem; 

 12. Urges the Government of Israel to speedily compensate the Agency for 
damage to its property and facilities resulting from actions by the Israeli side and to 
expeditiously reimburse the Agency for all transit charges incurred and other 
financial losses sustained by the Agency as a result of delays and restrictions on 
movement and access imposed by Israel; 

 13. Calls upon Israel particularly to cease obstructing the movement and 
access of the staff, vehicles and supplies of the Agency and to cease the levying of 
extra fees and charges, which affect the Agency’s operations detrimentally; 

 14. Requests the Commissioner-General to proceed with the issuance of 
identification cards for Palestine refugees and their descendants in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory; 

 15. Affirms that the functioning of the Agency remains essential in all the 
fields of operation; 

 16. Notes the success of the Agency’s microfinance and microenterprise 
programmes, and calls upon the Agency, in close cooperation with the relevant 
agencies, to continue to contribute to the development of the economic and social 
stability of the Palestine refugees in all the fields of operation; 

 17. Reiterates its request to the Commissioner-General to proceed with the 
modernization of the archives of the Agency through the Palestine Refugee Records 
Project, and to indicate progress in her report to the General Assembly at its sixty-
third session; 

 18. Reiterates its previous appeals to all States, specialized agencies and 
non-governmental organizations to continue and to augment the special allocations 
for grants and scholarships for higher education to Palestine refugees in addition to 
their contributions to the regular budget of the Agency and to contribute to the 
establishment of vocational training centres for Palestine refugees, and requests the 
Agency to act as the recipient and trustee for the special allocations for grants and 
scholarships; 

__________________ 

 11  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 



 A/C.4/62/L.12
 

5 07-59938 
 

 19. Urges all States, specialized agencies and non-governmental 
organizations to continue and to increase their contributions to the Agency so as to 
ease the ongoing financial constraints, exacerbated by the current humanitarian 
situation on the ground that has resulted in rising expenditures, in particular with 
regard to emergency services, and to support the Agency’s valuable and necessary 
work in assisting the Palestine refugees in all fields of operation. 

 


