











































Microsoft Word - 0460406e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/59/L.64/Rev.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
11 November 2004

Original: English

04-60406 (E)    151104

*0460406*

Fifty-ninth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 105 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoms

Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea Bissau, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Niger,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe: revised draft resolution

The right to food

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 58/186 of 22 December 2003, as well as all
Commission on Human Rights resolutions in this regard, in particular resolution
2004/19 of 16 April 2004,1

Recalling also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,2 which provides
that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for her or his health and
well-being, including food, the Universal Declaration on the Eradication of Hunger
and Malnutrition,3 and the United Nations Millennium Declaration,4

__________________
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
2 Resolution 217 A (III).
3 Report of the World Food Conference, Rome, 5-16 November 1974 (United Nations publication,

Sales No. E.75.II.A.3), chap. I.
4 See resolution 55/2.



2

A/C.3/59/L.64/Rev.1

Recalling further the provisions of the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights,5 in which the fundamental right of every person to be
free from hunger is recognized,

Bearing in mind the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the World
Food Summit Plan of Action6 and the Declaration of the World Food Summit: five
years later, adopted in Rome on 13 June 2002,7

Reaffirming that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and
interrelated,

Reaffirming that a peaceful, stable and enabling political, social and economic
environment, at both the national and the international levels, is the essential
foundation that will enable States to give adequate priority to food security and
poverty eradication,

Reiterating, as in the Rome Declaration and the Declaration of the World Food
Summit: five years later, that food should not be used as an instrument of political
or economic pressure, and reaffirming in this regard the importance of international
cooperation and solidarity, as well as the necessity of refraining from unilateral
measures that are not in accordance with international law and the Charter of the
United Nations and that endanger food security,

Convinced that each State must adopt a strategy consistent with its resources
and capacities to achieve its individual goals in implementing the recommendations
contained in the Rome Declaration and the World Food Summit Plan of Action and,
at the same time, cooperate regionally and internationally in order to organize
collective solutions to global issues of food security in a world of increasingly
interlinked institutions, societies and economies where coordinated efforts and
shared responsibilities are essential,

Recognizing that the problems of hunger and food insecurity have global
dimensions and that they are likely to persist and even to increase dramatically in
some regions unless urgent, determined and concerted action is taken, given the
anticipated increase in the world’s population and the stress on natural resources,

Expressing its concern about the adverse impact on the realization on the right
to food caused by many humanitarian emergencies, including plagues and natural
disasters,

Stressing the importance of reversing the continuing decline of official
development assistance devoted to agriculture, both in real terms and as a share of
total official development assistance,

1. Reaffirms that hunger constitutes an outrage and a violation of human
dignity and therefore requires the adoption of urgent measures at the national,
regional and international levels for its elimination;

2. Also reaffirms the right of everyone to have access to safe and nutritious
food, consistent with the right to adequate food and the fundamental right of

__________________
5 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
6 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit,

13-17 November 1996 (WFS 96/REP), part one, appendix.
7 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit:

five years later, 10-13 June 2002, part one, appendix; see also A/57/499, annex.



3

A/C.3/59/L.64/Rev.1

everyone to be free from hunger, so as to be able to fully develop and maintain their
physical and mental capacities;

3. Considers it intolerable that there are around 842 million undernourished
people in the world, that every five seconds a child under the age of five dies from
hunger-related diseases and that more than two billion people throughout the world
suffer from “hidden hunger” or micronutrient malnutrition when, according to the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the world produces more
than enough food to feed its entire population;

4. Expresses its concern that women are disproportionately affected by
hunger, food insecurity and poverty, in part as a result of gender inequality, that in
many countries, girls are twice as likely as boys to die from malnutrition and
preventable childhood diseases, and that it is estimated that almost twice as many
women suffer from malnutrition as men;

5. Encourages all States to take steps with a view to achieving
progressively the full realization of the right to food, including steps to promote the
conditions for everyone to be free from hunger and, as soon as possible, to enjoy
fully the right to food, and to create and adopt national plans to combat hunger;

6. Requests all States and private actors, as well as international
organizations within their respective mandates, to take fully into account the need to
promote the effective realization of the right to food for all, including in the ongoing
negotiations in different fields;

7. Encourages all States to take action to address discrimination against
women, particularly where it contributes to the malnutrition of women and girls,
including measures to ensure the realization of the right to food and ensuring that
women have equal access to resources, including income, land and water, to enable
them to feed themselves;

8. Stresses the need to make efforts to mobilize and optimize the allocation
and utilization of technical and financial resources from all sources, including
external debt relief for developing countries, and to reinforce national actions to
implement sustainable food security policies;

9. Welcomes the meeting of world leaders for action against hunger and
poverty, convened by the Presidents of Brazil, Chile, and France and the President
of the Government of Spain, with the support of the Secretary-General, and the
resulting New York Declaration, which has been supported by 110 countries to date,
and recommends the continuation of efforts aimed at identifying additional sources
of financing for the fight against hunger and poverty;

10. Recognizes that the promises made at the World Food Summit in 1996 to
halve the number of persons who are undernourished are not being fulfilled, and
invites once again all international financial and developmental institutions, as well
as the relevant United Nations agencies and funds, to give priority to and provide
the necessary funding to realize the aim of halving by 2015 the proportion of people
who suffer from hunger, as well as the right to food as set out in the Rome
Declaration on World Food Security6 and the United Nations Millennium
Declaration;4

11. Urges States to give adequate priority in their development strategies and
expenditures to the realization of the right to food;



4

A/C.3/59/L.64/Rev.1

12. Takes note of the interim report of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on the right to food,8 and commends the Special
Rapporteur for his valuable work in the promotion of the right to food;

13. Supports the realization of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur as
extended by the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 2003/25 of 22 April
2003;9

14. Expresses its appreciation to the Special Rapporteur for his effective
contribution to the medium-term review of the implementation of the Rome
Declaration on World Food Security and the World Food Summit Plan of Action
through the submission to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
of his recommendations on all aspects of the right to food, and his participation in
and contribution to the proceedings of that event;

15. Encourages the Special Rapporteur to continue mainstreaming a gender
perspective in the activities relating to his mandate;

16. Requests the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner to provide
all the necessary human and financial resources for the effective fulfilment of the
mandate of the Special Rapporteur;

17. Welcomes the work already done by the Committee on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights in promoting the right to adequate food, in particular its general
comment No. 12 (1999) on the right to adequate food (article 11 of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), in which the Committee
affirmed, inter alia, that the right to adequate food is indivisibly linked to the
inherent dignity of the human person and is indispensable for the fulfilment of other
human rights enshrined in the International Bill of Human Rights, and is also
inseparable from social justice, requiring the adoption of appropriate economic,
environmental and social policies, at both the national and the international levels,
oriented to the eradication of poverty and the fulfilment of all human rights for
all;10

18. Takes note of general comment No. 15 (2002) of the Committee on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on the right to water (articles 11 and 12 of the
Covenant), in which the Committee noted, inter alia, the importance of ensuring
sustainable water resources for human consumption and agriculture in realization of
the right to adequate food;11

19. Welcomes the adoption by the Intergovernmental Working Group, as
mandated by the Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations, of a set of voluntary guidelines to support the progressive realization of the
right to adequate food in the context of national food security, as well as the
endorsement of the Committee on World Food Security of the voluntary guidelines
as submitted and its decision to transmit them to the Council for final adoption, and
in this regard encourages States members of the Council to adopt the voluntary
guidelines;

__________________
8 See A/59/385.
9 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
10 Ibid., 2000, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/2000/22 and Corr.1), annex V, para. 4.
11 Ibid., 2003, Supplement No. 2 (E/2003/22), annex IV.



5

A/C.3/59/L.64/Rev.1

20. Also welcomes the continued cooperation of the High Commissioner, the
Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Special Rapporteur,
and encourages them to continue their cooperation in this regard;

21. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit a comprehensive report to the
Commission on Human Rights at its sixty-first session and an interim report to the
General Assembly at its sixtieth session on the implementation of the present
resolution;

22. Invites Governments, relevant United Nations agencies, funds and
programmes, treaty bodies, civil society actors, including non-governmental
organizations, as well as the private sector, to cooperate fully with the Special
Rapporteur in the fulfilment of his mandate, inter alia, through the submission of
comments and suggestions on ways and means of realizing the right to food;

23. Decides to continue the consideration of this matter at its sixtieth session
under the item entitled “Human rights questions”.


