













































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/69/L.47/Rev.1 

  

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
14 November 2014 

 

Original: English 

 

 

14-64839 (E)    181114     

*1464839*  
 

Sixty-ninth session  

 Third Committee 
Agenda item 68 (b)  

Promotion and protection of human rights: human rights  

questions, including alternative approaches for improving the  

effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms   
 

 

 

  Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, 

Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, 

Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, 

Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, 

Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, 

Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, 

Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, 

Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of 

Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Ukraine, 

Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of): revised draft resolution 
 

 

  Extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions 
 

 

 The General Assembly,  

 Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 which guarantees the 

right to life, liberty and security of person, the relevant provisions of the 

International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and other relevant human 

rights conventions,  

 Reaffirming the mandate of the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights 

Council on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, as set out in Council 

resolution 26/12 of 26 June 2014,3  

 Welcoming the universal ratification of the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 

1949,4 which alongside international human rights law provide important legal 

frameworks of accountability in relation to extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary 

executions during armed conflict,  
__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III).   

 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 

 3  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 53 

(A/69/53), chap. V, sect. A. 

 4  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973. 

http://undocs.org/A/69/53


A/C.3/69/L.47/Rev.1 
 

 

14-64839 2/6 

 

 Recalling all its resolutions on the subject of extrajudicial, summary or 

arbitrary executions and the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights and of 

the Human Rights Council on the subject, and emphasizing the importance of their 

full and effective implementation,  

 Recognizing the positive role that regional human rights systems can play in 

the global protection against arbitrary deprivation of life,  

 Noting with deep concern that impunity continues to be a major cause of the 

perpetuation of violations of human rights, including extrajudicial, summary or 

arbitrary executions,  

 Noting that enforced disappearances can end up in extrajudicial, summary or 

arbitrary executions, recalling the importance in this regard of the International 

Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance,5 and 

calling upon all States which have not yet done so to consider signing and ratifying 

or acceding to the Convention,  

 Acknowledging that international human rights law and international 

humanitarian law are complementary and mutually reinforcing,  

 Noting with deep concern the growing number of civilians and persons hors de 

combat killed in situations of armed conflict and internal strife,  

 Noting also with deep concern the continuing instances of the arbitrary 

deprivation of life, resulting, inter alia, from the imposition and implementation of 

capital punishment when carried out in a manner that violates international law,  

 Deeply concerned about acts that can amount to extrajudicial, summary or 

arbitrary executions committed against persons exercising their rights of peaceful 

assembly and freedom of expression in all regions of the world,  

 Deeply concerned also about killings committed by non-State actors, including 

terrorist groups and criminal organizations, that may amount to abuses of 

international human rights law and violations of international humanitarian law,  

 Acknowledging that extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions may under 

certain circumstances amount to genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes, 

as defined in international law, including in the Rome Statute of the International 

Criminal Court,6 and recalling in this regard that each individual State has the 

responsibility to protect its populations from such crimes as set out in Ge neral 

Assembly resolutions 60/1 of 16 September 2005 and 63/308 of 14 September 2009,  

 Convinced of the need for effective action to prevent, combat and eliminate 

the abhorrent practice of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, which 

represent flagrant violations of international human rights law, particularly the right 

to life, as well as of international humanitarian law,  

 1. Reiterates its strong condemnation of all the extrajudicial, summary or 

arbitrary executions that continue to occur throughout the world;  

 2. Demands that all States ensure that the practice of extrajudicial, 

summary or arbitrary executions is brought to an end and that they take effective 

__________________ 

 5  Resolution 61/177, annex, of 20 December 2006. 

 6  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2187, No. 38544. 



 
A/C.3/69/L.47/Rev.1 

 

3/6 14-64839 

 

action to prevent, combat and eliminate the phenomenon in all its forms and 

manifestations;  

 3. Reiterates that all States must conduct prompt, exhaustive and impartial 

investigations into all suspected cases of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary 

executions, identify and bring to justice those responsible, while ensuring the right 

of every person to a fair hearing by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal 

established by law, grant adequate compensation within a reasonable time to the 

victims or their families and to adopt all necessary measures, including legal and 

judicial measures, put an end to impunity and prevent the further occurrence of such 

executions, as recommended in the Principles on the Effective Prevention and 

Investigation of Extralegal, Arbitrary and Summary Executions,7 fully consistent 

with their obligations under international law;  

 4. Calls upon Governments, and invites intergovernmental and 

non-governmental organizations, to pay greater attention to the work of national -

level commissions of inquiry into extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions 

with a view to ensuring the effective contribution of these commissions to 

accountability and to combating impunity;  

 5. Calls upon all States, in order to prevent extrajudicial, summary or 

arbitrary executions, to comply with their obligations under relevant prov isions of 

international human rights instruments, and further calls upon States which retain 

the death penalty to pay particular regard to the provisions contained in articles 6, 

14 and 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
2
 and articles 

37 and 40 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child,8 bearing in mind the 

safeguards and guarantees set out in Economic and Social Council resolutions 

1984/50 of 25 May 1984 and 1989/64 of 24 May 1989 and taking into account the 

recommendations of the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary 

executions in his reports to the Human Rights Council and the General Assembly, 

including the report submitted to the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session,9 

regarding the need to respect all safeguards and restrictions, including the most 

serious crimes limitation, stringent respect of due process and fair trial safeguards 

and the right to seek pardon or commutation of sentence;  

 6. Urges all States:  

 (a) To take all measures required by international human rights law and 

international humanitarian law to prevent loss of life, in particular that of children, 

during detention, arrest, public demonstrations, internal and communal violence, 

civil unrest, public emergencies or armed conflicts and to ensure that the police, law 

enforcement agents, armed forces and other agents acting on behalf of or with the 

consent or acquiescence of the State act with restraint and in conformity with 

international human rights law and international humanitarian law, including the 

principles of proportionality and necessity, and in this regard to ensure that police 

and law enforcement officials are guided by the Code of Conduct for Law 

__________________ 

 7  Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/65, annex.  

 8  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.  

 9  A/67/275. 

http://undocs.org/A/67/275


A/C.3/69/L.47/Rev.1 
 

 

14-64839 4/6 

 

Enforcement Officials10 and the Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms  

by Law Enforcement Officials;11  

 (b) To ensure the effective protection of the right to life of all persons to 

conduct, when required by obligations under international law, prompt, exhaustive 

and impartial investigations into all killings, including those targeted at specific 

groups of persons, such as racially motivated violence leading to the death of the 

victim, killings of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic 

minorities or because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, killings of 

persons affected by terrorism or hostage-taking or living under foreign occupation, 

killings of refugees, internally displaced persons, migrants, street children or 

members of indigenous communities, killings of persons for reasons related to their 

activities as human rights defenders, lawyers, journalists or demonstrators, killings 

committed in the name of passion or in the name of honour, and killings committed 

for discriminatory reasons on any basis, to bring those responsible to justic e before 

a competent, independent and impartial judiciary at the national or, where 

appropriate, international level and to ensure that such killings, including those 

committed by security forces, police and law enforcement agents, paramilitary 

groups or private forces, are neither condoned nor sanctioned by State officials or 

personnel;  

 7. Affirms the obligation of States, in order to prevent extrajudicial, 

summary or arbitrary executions, to protect the lives of all persons deprived of their 

liberty in all circumstances and to investigate and respond to deaths in custody;  

 8. Encourages States, taking into account the relevant recommendations of 

the United Nations and of regional human rights systems, to review, where 

necessary, their domestic laws and practices with regard to the use of force during 

law enforcement in order to ensure that these laws and practices are in conformity 

with their international obligations and commitments;  

 9. Urges all States to ensure that all persons deprived of their liberty are 

treated humanely and with full respect for international law and that their treatment, 

including judicial guarantees, and conditions conform to the Standard Minimum 

Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners12 and, where applicable, to the Geneva 

Conventions of 12 August 19494 and the Additional Protocols thereto, of 8 June 

1977,13 as well as to other pertinent international instruments;  

 10. Welcomes the International Criminal Court as an important contribution 

to ending impunity concerning extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and, 

noting the growing awareness of the Court worldwide, calls upon those States that 

are under an obligation to cooperate with the Court to provide such cooperation and 

assistance in the future, in particular with regard to arrest and surrender, the 

provision of evidence, the protection and relocation of victims and witnesses and 

the enforcement of sentences, further welcomes the fact that 122 States have already 

ratified or acceded to and 139 States have signed the Rome Statute of the Court, and 
__________________ 

 10  Resolution 34/169, annex.  

 11  See Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, 

Havana, 27 August-7 September 1990: report prepared by the Secretariat (United Nations 

publication, Sales No. E.91.IV.2), chap. I, sect. B. 

 12  Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments , Volume I (First Part), Universal 

Instruments (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.XIV.4 (Vol. I, Part 1)), sect. J, No. 34.  

 13  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513. 



 
A/C.3/69/L.47/Rev.1 

 

5/6 14-64839 

 

calls upon all those States that have not ratified or acceded to the Rome Statute and 

the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal 

Court14 to give serious consideration to doing so;  

 11. Acknowledges the importance of ensuring the protection of witnesses for 

the prosecution of those suspected of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, 

urges States to intensify efforts to establish and implement effective witness 

protection programmes or other measures, and in this regard encourages the Office 

of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to develop practical 

tools designed to encourage and facilitate greater attention to the protection of 

witnesses;  

 12. Encourages Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental 

organizations to organize training programmes and to support projects with a view 

to training or educating military forces, law enforcement officers and government 

officials in international humanitarian and human rights law connected with their 

work and to include a gender and child rights perspective in such training, and 

appeals to the international community and requests the Office of the High 

Commissioner to support endeavours to that end;  

 13. Takes note with appreciation of the reports of the Special Rapporteur to 

the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council,15 and invites States to take 

due consideration of the recommendations contained therein;  

 14. Commends the important role that the Special Rapporteur plays towards 

the elimination of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and encourages 

the Special Rapporteur to continue, within his mandate, to collect information from 

all concerned, to respond effectively to reliable information that comes be fore him, 

to follow up on communications and country visits and to seek the views and 

comments of Governments and to reflect them, as appropriate, in his reports;  

 15. Acknowledges the important role of the Special Rapporteur in identifying 

cases where extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions could amount to 

genocide and crimes against humanity or war crimes, and urges the Special 

Rapporteur to collaborate with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 

Rights and, as appropriate, the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the 

Prevention of Genocide in addressing situations of extrajudicial, summary or 

arbitrary executions that are of particularly serious concern or in which early action 

might prevent further deterioration;  

 16. Welcomes the cooperation established between the Special Rapporteur 

and other United Nations mechanisms and procedures in the field of human rights, 

and encourages the Special Rapporteur to continue efforts in that regard;  

 17. Urges all States, in particular those that have not done so, to cooperate 

with the Special Rapporteur so that his mandate can be carried out effectively, 

including by favourably and rapidly responding to requests for visits, mindful that 

country visits are one of the essential tools for the ful filment of the mandate of the 

Special Rapporteur, and by responding in a timely manner to communications and 

other requests transmitted to them by the Special Rapporteur;  

__________________ 

 14  Ibid., vol. 2271, No. 40446. 

 15  See A/68/382 and Corr.1 and A/69/265. 

http://undocs.org/A/68/382
http://undocs.org/A/69/265


A/C.3/69/L.47/Rev.1 
 

 

14-64839 6/6 

 

 18. Expresses its appreciation to those States that have received the Special 

Rapporteur, asks them to examine his recommendations carefully, invites them to 

inform him of the actions taken on those recommendations, and requests other 

States to cooperate in a similar way;  

 19. Once again requests the Secretary-General to continue to use his best 

endeavours in cases where the minimum standards of legal safeguards provided for 

in articles 6, 9, 14 and 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 

appear not to have been respected;  

 20. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with 

adequate human, financial and material resources to enable him to carry out his 

mandate effectively, including through country visits;  

 21. Also requests the Secretary-General to continue, in close collaboration 

with the High Commissioner, in conformity with the mandate of the High 

Commissioner established by the General Assembly in its resolution 48/141 of 

20 December 1993, to ensure that personnel specialized in international 

humanitarian and human rights law form part of United Nations missions, where 

appropriate, in order to deal with serious violations of human rights, such as 

extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions;  

 22. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit to the General Assembly at its 

seventieth and seventy-first sessions a report on the situation worldwide in regard to 

extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions and his recommendations for more 

effective action to combat this phenomenon;  

 23. Decides to continue its consideration of the question at its seventy-first 

session. 

 


