












































United Nations A/C.1/57/L.34

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
10 October 2002

Original: English

02-63126 (E)    111002

*0263126*

Fifty-seventh session
First Committee
Agenda item 66 (l)
General and complete disarmament: nuclear-weapon-
free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas

Angola, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cape
Verde, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Fiji, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan, Liberia, Madagascar,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nauru, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Samoa, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand, Tonga, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela and Viet Nam: draft resolution

Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 51/45 B of 10 December 1996, 52/38 N of 9
December 1997, 53/77 Q of 4 December 1998, 54/54 L of 1 December 1999, 55/33 I
of 20 November 2000 and 56/24 G of 29 November 2001,

Welcoming the adoption by the Disarmament Commission at its 1999
substantive session of a text entitled “Establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States of the region
concerned”,1

Welcoming the decision taken by Cuba to ratify the Treaty of Tlatelolco,2

which will fulfil the establishment of the first inhabited Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone,
encompassing all States of Latin America and the Caribbean,

Welcoming the ratification by the Kingdom of Tonga of the Treaty of
Rarotonga,3 in December 2001, which completes the list of original parties to the
South Pacific Nuclear-Free-Zone Treaty,

1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/54/42),
annex I.

2 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.
3 See The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 10: 1985 (United Nations publication,

Sales No. E.86.IX.7), appendix VII.



2

A/C.1/57/L.34

Welcoming the endorsement from Heads of State and Government at the thirty-
third Pacific Islands Forum, held in Suva, Fiji, from 15 to 17 August 2002, for a
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Southern Hemisphere,

Welcoming also the meeting between the Agency for the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (OPANAL) Secretary and the
Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat that was held in New York in April 2002, aimed at
identifying areas for further cooperation,

Determined to pursue the total elimination of nuclear weapons,

Determined also to continue to contribute to the prevention of the proliferation
of nuclear weapons in all its aspects and to the process of general and complete
disarmament under strict and effective international control, in particular in the field
of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, with a view to
strengthening international peace and security, in accordance with the purposes and
principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling the provisions on nuclear-weapon-free zones of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly,4 the first special session
devoted to disarmament,

Stressing the importance of the treaties of Tlatelolco,2 Rarotonga,3 Bangkok5

and Pelindaba,6 establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones, as well as the Antarctic
Treaty,7 to, inter alia, achieve a world entirely free of nuclear weapons,

Underlining the value of enhancing cooperation among the nuclear-weapon-
free zone treaty members by means of mechanisms such as joint meetings of States
parties, signatories and observers to those treaties,

Recalling the applicable principles and rules of international law relating to the
freedom of the high seas and the rights of passage through maritime space, including
those of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,8

1. Welcomes the continued contribution that the Antarctic Treaty,7 and the
treaties of Tlatelolco,2 Rarotonga,3 Bangkok5 and Pelindaba6 are making towards
freeing the southern hemisphere and adjacent areas covered by those treaties from
nuclear weapons;

2. Calls for the ratification of the treaties of Tlatelolco, Rarotonga, Bangkok
and Pelindaba by all States of the region, and calls upon all concerned States to
continue to work together in order to facilitate adherence to the protocols to nuclear-
weapon-free zone treaties by all relevant States that have not yet done so;

3. Welcomes the steps taken to conclude further nuclear-weapon-free zone
treaties on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States of the region
concerned, and calls upon all States to consider all relevant proposals, including

4 Resolution S-10/2.
5 Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone.
6 A/50/426, annex.
7 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, No. 5778.
8 See The Law of the Sea: Official Texts of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of

10 December 1982 and of the Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI of the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 with Index and Excerpts from the
Final Act of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.97.V.10).



3

A/C.1/57/L.34

those reflected in its resolutions on the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
in the Middle East and South Asia;

4. Convinced of the important role of nuclear-weapon-free zones in
strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime and in extending the areas of the
world that are nuclear-weapon-free, and, with particular reference to the
responsibilities of the nuclear-weapon States, calls upon all States to support the
process of nuclear disarmament and to work for the total elimination of all nuclear
weapons;

5. Calls upon the States parties and signatories to the treaties of Tlatelolco,
Rarotonga, Bangkok and Pelindaba, in order to pursue the common goals envisaged
in those treaties and to promote the nuclear-weapon-free status of the southern
hemisphere and adjacent areas, to explore and implement further ways and means of
cooperation among themselves and their treaty agencies;

6. Welcomes the vigorous efforts being made among States parties and
signatories to those treaties to promote their common objectives, and considers that
an international conference of States parties and signatories to the nuclear-weapon-
free zone treaties might be held to support the common goals envisaged in those
treaties;

7. Encourages the competent authorities of the nuclear-weapon-free-zone
treaties to provide assistance to the States parties and signatories to those treaties so
as to facilitate the accomplishment of these goals;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the
item entitled “Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas”.


