











































Microsoft Word - 0459166e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/59/L.62

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
3 November 2004

Original: English

04-59166 (E)    051104

*0459166*

Fifty-ninth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 105 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoms

Peru, Romania, Timor-Leste and United States of America: draft resolution

Enhancing the role of regional, subregional and other
organizations and arrangements in promoting and
consolidating democracy

The General Assembly,

Recalling General Assembly resolution 55/96 of 4 December 2000 and all
relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights, in particular 1999/57 of
27 April 1999,1 2000/47 of 25 April 2000,2 2001/41 of 23 April 2001,3 2002/46 of
23 April 2002,4 2003/36 of 23 April 20035 and 2004/30 of 13 April 2004,6

1. Declares that the essential elements of democracy include respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms, inter alia, freedom of association and
peaceful assembly and of expression and opinion, and the right to take part in the
conduct of public affairs, directly or through freely chosen representatives, to vote
and to be elected at genuine periodic free elections by universal and equal suffrage
and by secret ballot guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the people, as
well as a pluralistic system of political parties and organizations, respect for the rule
of law, the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, transparency and
accountability in public administration and free, independent and pluralistic media;

2. Reaffirms that the promotion and protection of all human rights is a basic
prerequisite for the existence of a democratic society, and recognizes the importance

__________________
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1999, Supplement No. 3 (E/1999/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
2 Ibid., 2000, Supplement No. 3 (E/2000/23), chap. II, sect. A.
3 Ibid., 2001, Supplement No. 3 (E/2001/23), chap. II, sect. A.
4 Ibid., 2002, Supplement No. 3 (E/2002/23), chap. II, sect. A.
5 Ibid., 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), chap. II, sect. A.
6 Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), chap. II, sect. A.



2

A/C.3/59/L.62

of the continuous development and strengthening of the United Nations human
rights mechanisms for the consolidation of democracy;

3. Recognizes the importance of all actions taken at the regional and
subregional levels that are aimed at facilitating the establishment, development and
consolidation of democratic institutions, based on democratic values and principles
and capable of responding to the specific needs of the countries in each region;

4. Acknowledges the importance of better awareness of democratic values
and principles in all regions and for all people;

5. Also acknowledges that democracy contributes to the realization of all
human rights and that there is a close link between democracy and good governance,
on the one hand, and economic development and poverty alleviation, on the other;

6. Further acknowledges that democracy contributes substantially to
preventing violent conflict, to accelerating reconciliation and reconstruction in post-
conflict peace-building and, in peacetime, to resolving disputes that may impede
economic and social progress;

7. Recognizes the need for Member States to pay further special attention
and contribute to democratic institution-building by including relevant objectives to
this effect in the mandates of peacemaking, peacekeeping and post-conflict peace-
building operations and by providing adequate resources in that regard;

8. Invites intergovernmental regional, subregional and other organizations
and arrangements, as well as relevant non-governmental organizations, to engage
actively in work at the local, national, subregional and regional levels for the
constant promotion and consolidation of democracy and to initiate exchanges with
the United Nations system on their experiences, inter alia, by:

(a) Identifying and disseminating best practices and experiences at the
regional, subregional and cross-regional levels in promoting and protecting
democratic processes;

(b) Establishing and supporting regional, subregional and national civic
education programmes that provide access to information on democratic governance
and stimulate dialogue on the functioning of democracy;

(c) Encouraging the study, in schools and universities, of democracy, human
rights, good governance and the functioning of public administration, political
institutions and civil society organizations;

(d) Elaborating and widely distributing reports, assessments, training
material, handbooks, case studies and documentation on alternative types of
democratic constitutions, electoral systems and administration in order to assist
populations in making more informed choices;

(e) Encouraging the use of democratic consultative mechanisms in disputes
as an opportunity for the parties involved to advance their interests within
institutional frameworks;

(f) Working with the focal point for democracy of the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;

9. Invites States members of intergovernmental regional organizations and
arrangements to include or reinforce the provisions of the constitutive acts of the



3

A/C.3/59/L.62

organizations and arrangements that are aimed at promoting democratic values and
principles and protecting and consolidating democracy in their respective societies;

10. Welcomes the adoption by various regional, subregional and other
organizations and arrangements of institutional rules designed to prevent situations
that threaten democratic institutions or to implement measures for the collective
defence of democracy in the event of a serious disturbance or disruption of the
democratic system;

11. Invites intergovernmental regional organizations and arrangements to
institutionalize dialogue among themselves on joint actions to promote and
consolidate democracy and democratic practices in all areas;

12. Encourages Member States and intergovernmental, regional and cross-
regional organizations and arrangements, as well as relevant non-governmental
organizations, to initiate networks and partnerships with a view to assisting the
Governments and civil society in their respective regions in disseminating
knowledge and information about the role of democratic institutions and
mechanisms in meeting the political, economic, social and cultural challenges in
their respective societies;

13. Urges the continuation and expansion of activities carried out by the
United Nations system, intergovernmental organizations and Member States to
promote and consolidate democracy within the framework of international
cooperation;

14. Invites the United Nations system to identify, develop and coordinate
effective policies of assistance in the field of democracy and, in this context, to
support programmes of technical assistance to States, upon their request, aimed at:

(a) Developing a competent, independent and impartial judiciary and
accountable government institutions;

(b) Strengthening political party systems, free and independent media and
civil society organizations;

(c) Fostering a democratic culture;

15. Calls upon the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to
stimulate dialogue and interaction within the United Nations system and between
the United Nations system and interested intergovernmental regional, subregional
and other organizations and arrangements on the ways and means of promoting
democratic values and principles, based on the present resolution and other relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly and of the Commission on Human Rights, and,
to this end, to invite, inter alia, the Department of Political Affairs, including its
Electoral Assistance Division, and Department of Economic and Social Affairs of
the Secretariat of the United Nations, the United Nations Development Programme,
the International Labour Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization and regional organizations to inform the Commission on
Human Rights, at its sixty-first session, of action taken to promote and consolidate
democracy;

16. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the
attention of Member States.


