












































United Nations A/C.3/57/L.30

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
28 October 2002

Original: English

02-66328 (E)    301002

*0266328*

Fifty-seventh session
Third Committee
Agenda item 109 (a)
Human rights questions: implementation of human
rights instruments

Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Chile,
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gambia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kiribati, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Marshall Islands,
Mexico, Monaco, Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saint Kitts
and Nevis, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain,
Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and
Yugoslavia: draft resolution

Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other
Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment

The General Assembly,

Recalling article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 article 7 of
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the Declaration on the
Protection of All Persons from Being Subjected to Torture and Other Cruel,
Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment3 and its resolution 39/46 of 10
December 1984, by which it adopted and opened for signature, ratification and
accession the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment or Punishment, and all its subsequent relevant resolutions,

Reaffirming that freedom from torture is a right that must be protected under
all circumstances,

__________________
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 Resolution 3452 (XXX), annex.



2

A/C.3/57/L.30

Considering that the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from
14 to 25 June 1993, firmly declared that efforts to eradicate torture should, first and
foremost, be concentrated on prevention and called for the early adoption of an
optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which is intended to establish a preventive
system of regular visits to places of detention,

Welcoming the adoption of the draft optional protocol to the Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment by the
Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 2002/33 of 22 April 20024 and by
the Economic and Social Council in its resolution E/2002/27 of 24 July 2002, in
which the Council recommended to the General Assembly the adoption of the draft
optional protocol,

1. Adopts the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other
Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment contained in the annex to the
present resolution, and requests the Secretary-General to open it for signature,
ratification and accession at United Nations Headquarters in New York from 1
January 2003;

2. Calls upon all States that have signed, ratified or acceded to the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punishment to sign and ratify or accede to the Optional Protocol.

Annex
Optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other
Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment

Preamble

The States Parties to the present Protocol,

Reaffirming that torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment are prohibited and constitute serious violations of human rights,

Convinced that further measures are necessary to achieve the purposes of the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or
Punishment (hereinafter referred to as the Convention) and to strengthen the
protection of persons deprived of their liberty from torture and other cruel, inhuman
or degrading treatment or punishment,

Recalling that articles 2 and 16 of the Convention oblige each State Party to
take effective measures to prevent acts of torture and other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment in any territory under its jurisdiction,

Recognizing that States have the primary responsibility for implementing these
articles, that strengthening the protection of people deprived of their liberty and the
full respect for their human rights is a common responsibility shared by all and that
international implementing bodies complement and strengthen national measures,

__________________
4 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2002, Supplement No. 3 (E/2002/23),

chap. II, sect. A.



3

A/C.3/57/L.30

Recalling that the effective prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment requires education and a combination of various
legislative, administrative, judicial or other measures,

Recalling also that the World Conference on Human Rights firmly declared
that efforts to eradicate torture should first and foremost be concentrated on
prevention and called for the adoption of an optional protocol to the Convention,
which is intended to establish a preventive system of regular visits to places of
detention,

Convinced that the protection of persons deprived of their liberty against
torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment can be
strengthened by non-judicial means of a preventive nature, based on regular visits to
places of detention,

Have agreed as follows:

Part I
General principles

Article 1

The objective of the present Protocol is to establish a system of regular visits
undertaken by independent international and national bodies to places where people
are deprived of their liberty, in order to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment.

Article 2

1. A Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment of the Committee against Torture (hereinafter
referred to as the Subcommittee on Prevention) shall be established and shall carry
out the functions laid down in the present Protocol.

2. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall carry out its work within the framework
of the Charter of the United Nations and will be guided by the purposes and
principles thereof, as well as the norms of the United Nations concerning the
treatment of people deprived of their liberty.

3. Equally, the Subcommittee on Prevention shall be guided by the principles of
confidentiality, impartiality, non-selectivity, universality and objectivity.

4. The Subcommittee on Prevention and the States Parties shall cooperate in the
implementation of the present Protocol.

Article 3

Each State Party shall set up, designate or maintain at the domestic level one
or several visiting bodies for the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment (hereinafter referred to as the national preventive
mechanism).



4

A/C.3/57/L.30

Article 4

1. Each State Party shall allow visits, in accordance with the present Protocol, by
the mechanisms referred to in articles 2 and 3 to any place under its jurisdiction and
control where persons are or may be deprived of their liberty, either by virtue of an
order given by a public authority or at its instigation or with its consent or
acquiescence (hereinafter referred to as places of detention). These visits shall be
undertaken with a view to strengthening, if necessary, the protection of these
persons against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment.

2. For the purposes of the present Protocol, deprivation of liberty means any form
of detention or imprisonment or the placement of a person in a public or private
custodial setting from which that person is not permitted to leave at will by order of
any judicial, administrative or other authority.

Part II
Subcommittee on Prevention

Article 5

1. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall consist of 10 members. After the
fiftieth ratification or accession to the present Protocol, the number of the members
of the Subcommittee on Prevention shall increase to 25.

2. The members of the Subcommittee shall be chosen from among persons of
high moral character, having proven professional experience in the field of the
administration of justice, in particular criminal law, prison or police administration,
or in the various fields relevant to the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty.

3. In the composition of the Subcommittee due consideration shall be given to
equitable geographic distribution and to the representation of different forms of
civilization and legal systems of the States Parties.

4. In this composition consideration shall also be given to the balanced gender
representation on the basis of the principles of equality and non-discrimination.

5. No two members of the Subcommittee may be nationals of the same State.

6. The members of the Subcommittee shall serve in their individual capacity,
shall be independent and impartial and shall be available to serve the Subcommittee
efficiently.

Article 6

1. Each State Party may nominate, in accordance with paragraph 2 below, up to
two candidates possessing the qualifications and meeting the requirements set out in
article 5, and in doing so shall provide detailed information on the qualifications of
the nominees.

2. (a) The nominees shall have the nationality of a State Party to the present
Protocol;

(b) At least one of the two candidates shall have the nationality of the
nominating State Party;



5

A/C.3/57/L.30

(c) No more than two nationals of a State Party shall be nominated;

(d) Before a State Party nominates a national of another State Party, it shall
seek and obtain the consent of that State Party.

3. At least five months before the date of the meeting of the States Parties during
which the elections will be held, the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall
address a letter to the States Parties inviting them to submit their nominations within
three months. The Secretary-General shall submit a list, in alphabetical order, of all
persons thus nominated, indicating the States Parties that have nominated them.

Article 7

1. The members of the Subcommittee on Prevention shall be elected in the
following manner:

(a) Primary consideration shall be given to the fulfilment of the requirements
and criteria of article 5 of the present Protocol;

(b) The initial election shall be held no later than six months after the entry
into force of the present Protocol;

(c) The States Parties shall elect the members of the Subcommittee by secret
ballot;

(d) Elections of the members of the Subcommittee shall be held at biennial
meetings of the States Parties convened by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations. At those meetings, for which two thirds of the States Parties shall
constitute a quorum, the persons elected to the Subcommittee shall be those who
obtain the largest number of votes and an absolute majority of the votes of the
representatives of the States Parties present and voting.

2. If during the election process two nationals of a State Party have become
eligible to serve as members of the Subcommittee on Prevention, the candidate
receiving the higher number of votes shall serve as the member of the
Subcommittee. Where nationals have received the same number of votes, the
following procedure applies:

(a) Where only one has been nominated by the State Party of which he or she
is a national, that national shall serve as the member of the Subcommittee on
Prevention;

(b) Where both candidates have been nominated by the State Party of which
they are nationals, a separate vote by secret ballot shall be held to determine which
national shall become member;

(c) Where neither candidate has been nominated by the State Party of which
he or she is a national, a separate vote by secret ballot shall be held to determine
which candidate shall be the member.

Article 8

If a member of the Subcommittee on Prevention dies or resigns, or for any
cause can no longer perform his or her duties, the State Party that nominated the
member shall nominate another eligible person possessing the qualifications and
meeting the requirements set out in article 5, taking into account the need for a



6

A/C.3/57/L.30

proper balance among the various fields of competence, to serve until the next
meeting of the States Parties, subject to the approval of the majority of the States
Parties. The approval shall be considered given unless half or more of the States
Parties respond negatively within six weeks after having been informed by the
Secretary-General of the United Nations of the proposed appointment.

Article 9

The members of the Subcommittee on Prevention shall be elected for a term of
four years. They shall be eligible for re-election once if renominated. The term of
half the members elected at the first election shall expire at the end of two years;
immediately after the first election the names of these members shall be chosen by
lot by the Chairman of the meeting referred to in article 7, paragraph 1 (d).

Article 10

1. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall elect its officers for a term of two
years. They may be re-elected.

2. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall establish its own rules of procedure.
These rules shall provide, inter alia, that:

(a) Half plus one members shall constitute a quorum;

(b) Decisions of the Subcommittee on Prevention shall be made by a
majority vote of the members present;

(c) The Subcommittee on Prevention shall meet in camera.

3. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall convene the initial meeting
of the Subcommittee on Prevention. After its initial meeting, the Subcommittee shall
meet at such times as shall be provided by its rules of procedure. The Subcommittee
on Prevention and the Committee against Torture shall hold their sessions
simultaneously at least once a year.

Part III
Mandate of the Subcommittee on Prevention

Article 11

The Subcommittee on Prevention shall:

(a) Visit the places referred to in article 4 and make recommendations to
States Parties concerning the protection of persons deprived of their liberty from
torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;

(b) In regard to the national preventive mechanisms:

(i) Advise and assist States Parties, when necessary, in their establishment;

(ii) Maintain direct, and if necessary confidential, contact with the national
preventive mechanisms and offer them training and technical assistance with a
view to strengthening their capacities;



7

A/C.3/57/L.30

(iii) Advise and assist them in the evaluation of the needs and the means
necessary to strengthen the protection of persons deprived of their liberty from
torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;

(iv) Make recommendations and observations to the States Parties with a
view to strengthening the capacity and the mandate of the national preventive
mechanisms for the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment;

(c) Cooperate, for the prevention of torture in general, with the relevant
United Nations organs and mechanisms as well as with the international, regional
and national institutions or organizations working towards the strengthening of the
protection of persons from torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment
or punishment.

Article 12

In order to enable the Subcommittee on Prevention to comply with its mandate
as laid out in article 11, the States Parties undertake to:

(a) Receive the Subcommittee on Prevention in its territory and grant it
access to the places of detention as defined in article 4 of the present Protocol;

(b) Share all relevant information the Subcommittee on Prevention may
request to evaluate the needs and measures that should be adopted in order to
strengthen the protection of persons deprived of their liberty from torture and other
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;

(c) Encourage and facilitate contacts between the Subcommittee on
Prevention and the national preventive mechanisms;

(d) Examine the recommendations of the Subcommittee on Prevention and
enter into dialogue with it on possible implementation measures.

Article 13

1. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall establish, at first by lot, a programme
of regular visits to the States Parties in order to fulfil its mandate as established in
article 11.

2. After consultations, the Subcommittee on Prevention shall notify the States
Parties of its programme in order that they may, without delay, make the necessary
practical arrangements for the visits to take place.

3. The visits shall be conducted by at least two members of the Subcommittee on
Prevention. These members may be accompanied, if needed, by experts of
demonstrated professional experience and knowledge in the fields covered by the
present Protocol who shall be selected from a roster of experts prepared on the basis
of proposals made by the States Parties, the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Centre for International
Crime Prevention. In preparing the roster, the States Parties concerned shall propose
no more than five national experts. The State Party concerned may oppose the
inclusion of a specific expert in the visit, whereupon the Subcommittee on
Prevention shall propose another expert.



8

A/C.3/57/L.30

4. If the Subcommittee on Prevention considers it appropriate, it can propose a
short follow-up visit after regular visit.

Article 14

1. In order to enable the Subcommittee on Prevention to fulfil its mandate, the
States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to grant it:

(a) Unrestricted access to all information concerning the number of persons
deprived of their liberty in places of detention as defined in article 4, as well as the
number of places and their location;

(b) Unrestricted access to all information referring to the treatment of these
persons as well as their conditions of detention;

(c) Subject to paragraph 2 below, unrestricted access to all places of
detention and their installations and facilities;

(d) The opportunity to have private interviews with the persons deprived of
their liberty without witnesses, either personally or with a translator if deemed
necessary, as well as with any other person whom the Subcommittee on Prevention
believes may supply relevant information;

(e) The liberty to choose the places it wants to visit and the persons it wants
to interview.

2. Objection to a visit to a particular place of detention can only be made on
urgent and compelling grounds of national defence, public safety, natural disaster or
serious disorder in the place to be visited that temporarily prevent the carrying out
of such a visit. The existence of a declaration of a state of emergency as such shall
not be invoked by a State Party as a reason to object to a visit.

Article 15

No authority or official shall order, apply, permit or tolerate any sanction
against any person or organization for having communicated to the Subcommittee
on Prevention or to its delegates any information, whether true or false, and no such
person or organization shall be otherwise prejudiced in any way.

Article 16

1. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall communicate its recommendations and
observations confidentially to the State Party and, if relevant, to the national
mechanism.

2. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall publish its report, together with any
comments of the State Party concerned, whenever requested to do so by that State
Party. If the State Party makes part of the report public, the Subcommittee on
Prevention may publish the report in whole or in part. However, no personal data
shall be published without the express consent of the person concerned.

3. The Subcommittee on Prevention shall present a public annual report on its
activities to the Committee against Torture.

4. If the State Party refuses to cooperate with the Subcommittee on Prevention
according to articles 12 and 14, or to take steps to improve the situation in the light



9

A/C.3/57/L.30

of the Subcommittee’s recommendations, the Committee against Torture may, at the
request of the Subcommittee on Prevention, decide, by a majority of its members,
after the State Party has had an opportunity to make its views known, to make a
public statement on the matter or to publish the Subcommittee’s report.

Part IV
National preventive mechanisms

Article 17

Each State Party shall maintain, designate or establish, at the latest one year
after the entry into force of the present Protocol or of its ratification or accession,
one or several independent national preventive mechanisms for the prevention of
torture at the domestic level. Mechanisms established by decentralized units may be
designated as national preventive mechanisms for the purposes of the present
Protocol if they are in conformity with its provisions.

Article 18

1. The States Parties shall guarantee the functional independence of the national
preventive mechanisms as well as the independence of their personnel.

2. The States Parties shall take the necessary measures in order for the experts of
the national mechanism to have the required capabilities and professional
knowledge. They shall strive for a gender balance and the adequate representation of
ethnic and minority groups in the country.

3. The States Parties undertake to make available the necessary resources for the
functioning of the national preventive mechanisms.

4. When establishing national preventive mechanisms, States Parties shall give
due consideration to the Principles relating to the status and functioning of national
institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights.

Article 19

The national preventive mechanisms shall be granted at a minimum the powers
to:

(a) Regularly examine the treatment of the persons deprived of their liberty
in places of detention as defined in article 4, with a view to strengthening, if
necessary, their protection from torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment;

(b) Make recommendations to the relevant authorities with the aim of
improving the treatment and the conditions of the persons deprived of their liberty
and to prevent torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment,
taking into consideration the relevant norms of the United Nations;

(c) Submit proposals and observations concerning existing or draft
legislation.



10

A/C.3/57/L.30

Article 20

In order to enable the national preventive mechanisms to fulfil their mandate,
the States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to grant them:

(a) Access to all information concerning the number of persons deprived of
their liberty in places of detention as defined in article 4, as well as the number of
places and their location;

(b) Access to all information referring to the treatment of these persons as
well as their conditions of detention;

(c) Access to all places of detention and their installations and facilities;

(d) The opportunity to have private interviews with the persons deprived of
their liberty without witnesses, either personally or with a translator if deemed
necessary, as well as with any other person whom the national preventive
mechanism believes may supply relevant information;

(e) The liberty to choose the places they want to visit and the persons they
want to interview;

(f) The right to have contacts with the Subcommittee on Prevention, to send
it information and to meet with it.

Article 21

1. No authority or official shall order, apply, permit or tolerate any sanction
against any person or organization for having communicated to the national
preventive mechanism any information, whether true or false, and no such person or
organization shall be otherwise prejudiced in any way.

2. Confidential information collected by the national preventive mechanism shall
be privileged. No personal data shall be published without the express consent of the
person concerned.

Article 22

The competent authorities of the State Party concerned shall examine the
recommendations of the national preventive mechanism and enter into a dialogue
with it on possible implementation measures.

Article 23

The States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to publish and disseminate
the annual reports of the national preventive mechanisms.

Part V
Declaration

Article 24

1. Upon ratification, States Parties can make a declaration postponing the
implementation of their obligations either under part III or under part IV of the
present Protocol.



11

A/C.3/57/L.30

2. This postponement shall be valid for a maximum of three years. After due
representations made by the State Party and after consultation with the
Subcommittee on Prevention, the Committee against Torture may extend that period
for an additional two years.

Part VI
Financial provisions

Article 25

1. The expenditure incurred by the Subcommittee on Prevention in the
implementation of the present Protocol shall be borne by the United Nations.

2. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall provide the necessary staff
and facilities for the effective performance of the functions of the Subcommittee
under the present Protocol.

Article 26

1. A Special Fund shall be set up in accordance with the relevant procedures of
the General Assembly, to be administered in accordance with the financial
regulations and rules of the United Nations, to help finance the implementation of
the recommendations made by the Subcommittee on Prevention after a visit to a
State Party, as well as education programmes of the national preventive
mechanisms.

2. The Special Fund may be financed through voluntary contributions made by
Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and other
private or public entities.

Part VII
Final provisions

Article 27

1. The present Protocol is open for signature by any State that has signed the
Convention.

2. The present Protocol is subject to ratification by any State that has ratified or
acceded to the Convention. Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.

3. The present Protocol shall be open to accession by any State that has ratified
or acceded to the Convention.

4. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with
the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

5. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall inform all States that have
signed the present Protocol or acceded to it of the deposit of each instrument of
ratification or accession.



12

A/C.3/57/L.30

Article 28

1. The present Protocol shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date of
deposit with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the twentieth instrument
of ratification or accession.

2. For each State ratifying the present Protocol or acceding to it after the deposit
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the twentieth instrument of
ratification or accession, the present Protocol shall enter into force on the thirtieth
day after the date of the deposit of its own instrument of ratification or accession.

Article 29

The provisions of the present Protocol shall extend to all parts of federal States
without any limitations or exceptions.

Article 30

No reservations shall be made to the present Protocol.

Article 31

The provisions of the present Protocol shall not affect the obligations of States
Parties under any regional convention instituting a system of visits to places of
detention. The Subcommittee on Prevention and the bodies established under such
regional conventions are encouraged to consult and cooperate with a view to
avoiding duplication and promoting effectively the objectives of the present
Protocol.

Article 32

The provisions of the present Protocol shall not affect the obligations of States
Parties to the four Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 and the Additional
Protocols thereto of 8 June 1977, nor the opportunity available to any State Party to
authorize the International Committee of the Red Cross to visit places of detention
in situations not covered by international humanitarian law.

Article 33

1. Any State Party may denounce the present Protocol at any time by written
notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall
thereafter inform the other States Parties to the present Protocol and the Convention.
Denunciation shall take effect one year after the date of receipt of the notification by
the Secretary-General.

2. Such a denunciation shall not have the effect of releasing the State Party from
its obligations under the present Protocol in regard to any act or situation that may
occur prior to the date at which the denunciation becomes effective, or to the actions
that the Subcommittee on Prevention has decided or may decide to adopt with
respect to the State Party concerned, nor shall denunciation prejudice in any way the
continued consideration of any matter already under consideration by the
Subcommittee on Prevention prior to the date at which the denunciation becomes
effective.



13

A/C.3/57/L.30

3. Following the date at which the denunciation of the State Party becomes
effective, the Subcommittee on Prevention shall not commence consideration of any
new matter regarding that State.

Article 34

1. Any State Party to the present Protocol may propose an amendment and file it
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Secretary-General shall
thereupon communicate the proposed amendment to the States Parties to the present
Protocol with a request that they notify him whether they favour a conference of
States Parties for the purpose of considering and voting upon the proposal. In the
event that within four months from the date of such communication at least one third
of the States Parties favour such a conference, the Secretary-General shall convene
the conference under the auspices of the United Nations. Any amendment adopted
by a majority of two thirds of the States Parties present and voting at the conference
shall be submitted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to all States
Parties for acceptance.

2. An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of the present article
shall come into force when it has been accepted by a two-thirds majority of the
States Parties to the present Protocol in accordance with their respective
constitutional process.

3. When amendments come into force, they shall be binding on those States
Parties that have accepted them, other States Parties still being bound by the
provisions of the present Protocol and any earlier amendment that they have
accepted.

Article 35

Members of the Subcommittee on Prevention and of the national preventive
mechanisms shall be accorded such privileges and immunities as are necessary for
the independent exercise of their functions. Members of the Subcommittee on
Prevention shall be accorded the privileges and immunities specified in section 22 of
the Convention on Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations of 13 February
1946, subject to the provisions of section 23 of that Convention.

Article 36

When visiting a State Party, the members of the Subcommittee on Prevention
shall, without prejudice to the provisions and purposes of the present Protocol and
such privileges and immunities as they may enjoy:

(a) Respect the laws and regulations of the visited State;

(b) Refrain from any action or activity incompatible with the impartial and
international nature of their duties.

Article 37

1. The present Protocol, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian
and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations.



14

A/C.3/57/L.30

2. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall transmit certified copies of
the present Protocol to all States.


