






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/63/L.35/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
18 November 2008 
 
Original: English 

 

08-60847 (E)    191108 
*0860847* 

Sixty-third session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 64 (b) 
Promotion and protection of human rights:  
human rights questions, including alternative  
approaches for improving the effective enjoyment  
of human rights and fundamental freedoms 

 
 
 

  Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, 
Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, 
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, 
Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, 
Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic  
of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of): revised  
draft resolution 
 
 

  Extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 which guarantees the 
right to life, liberty and security of person, the relevant provisions of the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and other relevant human 
rights conventions, 

 Reaffirming the mandate of the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights 
Council on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, as set out in Human 
Rights Council resolution 8/3, 

 Welcoming the universal ratification of the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 
1949,3 which alongside human rights law provide an important framework of 

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973. 



A/C.3/63/L.35/Rev.1  
 

08-60847 2 
 

accountability in relation to extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions during 
armed conflict, 

 Mindful of all its resolutions on the subject of extrajudicial, summary or 
arbitrary executions and the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights and of 
the Human Rights Council on the subject, 

 Noting with deep concern that impunity continues to be a major cause of the 
perpetuation of violations of human rights, including extrajudicial, summary or 
arbitrary executions, 

 Acknowledging that international human rights law and international 
humanitarian law are complementary and mutually reinforcing, 

 Noting with deep concern the growing number of civilians and persons hors de 
combat killed in situations of armed conflict and internal strife, 

 Acknowledging that extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions may under 
certain circumstances amount to genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes, 
as defined in international law, including in the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal Court,4 and recalling in this regard that each individual State has the 
responsibility to protect its populations from such crimes as set out in General 
Assembly resolution 60/1, 

 Convinced of the need for effective action to prevent, combat and eliminate the 
abhorrent practice of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, which 
represent flagrant violations of human rights, particularly the right to life, 

 1. Strongly condemns once again all the extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary 
executions that continue to occur throughout the world; 

 2. Demands that all States ensure that the practice of extrajudicial, summary 
or arbitrary executions is brought to an end and that they take effective action to 
prevent, combat and eliminate the phenomenon in all its forms and manifestations; 

 3. Reiterates the obligation of all States to conduct exhaustive and impartial 
investigations into all suspected cases of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary 
executions, to identify and bring to justice those responsible, while ensuring the 
right of every person to a fair and public hearing by a competent, independent and 
impartial tribunal established by law, to grant adequate compensation within a 
reasonable time to the victims or their families, and to adopt all necessary measures, 
including legal and judicial measures, to put an end to impunity and to prevent the 
further occurrence of such executions, as recommended in the Principles on the 
Effective Prevention and Investigation of Extralegal, Arbitrary and Summary 
Executions;5 

 4. Calls upon Governments and invites intergovernmental and 
non-governmental organizations to pay greater attention to the work of national 
level commissions of inquiry into extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions 
with a view to ensuring the effective contribution of these commissions to 
accountability and to combating impunity; 

__________________ 

 4  Ibid., vol. 2187, No. 38544. 
 5  Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/65, annex. 



 A/C.3/63/L.35/Rev.1
 

3 08-60847 
 

 5. Calls upon all States in which the death penalty has not been abolished to 
prevent extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions by complying with their 
obligations under relevant provisions of international human rights instruments 
including in particular articles 6, 7 and 14 of the International Covenant on Civil 
and Political Rights2 and articles 37 and 40 of the Convention on the Rights of the 
Child,6 bearing in mind the safeguards and guarantees set out in Economic and 
Social Council resolutions 1984/50 of 25 May 1984 and 1989/64 of 24 May 1989, 
and taking into account the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur regarding 
the need to respect essential procedural guarantees, including the right to seek 
pardon or commutation of sentence; 

 6. Urges all States: 

 (a) To take all necessary and possible measures, in conformity with 
international human rights law and international humanitarian law, to prevent loss of 
life, in particular that of children, during public demonstrations, internal and 
communal violence, civil unrest, public emergencies or armed conflicts, and to 
ensure that the police, law enforcement agents, armed forces and other agents acting 
on behalf of or with the consent or acquiescence of the State act with restraint and in 
conformity with international human rights law and international humanitarian law, 
including the principles of proportionality and necessity, and in this regard to ensure 
that police and law enforcement officials are guided by the Code of Conduct for 
Law Enforcement Officials7 and the Basic Principles on the Use of Force and 
Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials;8 

 (b) To ensure the effective protection of the right to life of all persons under 
their jurisdiction and to investigate promptly and thoroughly all killings, including 
those targeted at specific groups of persons, such as racially motivated violence 
leading to the death of the victim, killings of persons belonging to national or 
ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, killings of persons affected by terrorism, 
hostage-taking or foreign occupation, killings of refugees, internally displaced 
persons, migrants, street children or members of indigenous communities, killings 
of persons for reasons related to their activities as human rights defenders, lawyers, 
journalists or demonstrators, killings committed in the name of passion or in the 
name of honour, all killings committed for any discriminatory reason, including 
sexual orientation, as well as all other cases where a person’s right to life has been 
violated, and to bring those responsible to justice before a competent, independent 
and impartial judiciary at the national or, where appropriate, international level, and 
to ensure that such killings, including those committed by security forces, police 
and law enforcement agents, paramilitary groups or private forces, are neither 
condoned nor sanctioned by State officials or personnel; 

 7. Affirms the obligation of States, in order to prevent extrajudicial, 
summary or arbitrary executions, to protect the lives of all persons deprived of their 
liberty in all circumstances and to investigate and respond to deaths in custody; 

__________________ 

 6  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 7  Resolution 34/169, annex. 
 8  See Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, 

Havana, 27 August-7 September 1990: report prepared by the Secretariat (United Nations 
publication, Sales No. E.91.IV.2), chap. I, sect. B. 



A/C.3/63/L.35/Rev.1  
 

08-60847 4 
 

 8. Urges all States to ensure that persons deprived of their liberty are 
treated humanely and with full respect for their human rights and to ensure that their 
treatment, including judicial guarantees, and conditions conform to the Standard 
Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners9 and, where applicable, to the 
Geneva Conventions of 12 August 19493 and the Additional Protocols thereto of 
8 June 197710 in relation to all persons detained in armed conflict, as well as to 
other pertinent international instruments; 

 9. Welcomes the International Criminal Court as an important contribution 
to ending impunity concerning extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and, 
taking note of the growing awareness of the Court worldwide, calls upon those 
States that are under an obligation to cooperate with the Court to provide such 
cooperation and assistance in the future, in particular with regard to arrest and 
surrender, the provision of evidence, the protection and relocation of victims and 
witnesses and the enforcement of sentences, and further welcomes the fact that one 
hundred and eight States have already ratified or acceded to and that one hundred 
and thirty-nine States have signed the Rome Statute of the Court, and calls upon all 
those States that have not ratified or acceded to the Rome Statute to give serious 
consideration to doing so; 

 10. Acknowledges the importance of ensuring the protection of witnesses for 
the prosecution of those suspected of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, 
and urges States to intensify efforts to establish and implement effective witness 
protection programmes or other measures, and in this regard encourages the Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to develop practical 
tools designed to encourage and facilitate greater attention to the protection of 
witnesses; 

 11. Encourages Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental 
organizations to organize training programmes and to support projects with a view 
to training or educating military forces, law enforcement officers and government 
officials in human rights and humanitarian law issues connected with their work and 
to include a gender and child rights perspective in such training, and appeals to the 
international community and requests the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to support endeavours to that end; 

 12. Takes note with appreciation of the interim report of the Special 
Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary 
executions to the General Assembly;11 

 13. Commends the important role that the Special Rapporteur plays towards 
the elimination of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and encourages 
the Special Rapporteur to continue, within his mandate, to collect information from 
all concerned, to respond effectively to reliable information that comes before him, 
to follow up on communications and country visits and to seek the views and 
comments of Governments and to reflect them, as appropriate, in his reports; 

 14. Acknowledges the important role of the Special Rapporteur in identifying 
cases where extrajudicial, summary and arbitrary executions could amount to 

__________________ 

 9  Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments, Volume I (First Part): Universal 
Instruments (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.XIV.4 (Vol. I, Part 1)), sect. J, No. 34. 

 10  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513. 
 11  See A/61/311. 



 A/C.3/63/L.35/Rev.1
 

5 08-60847 
 

genocide and crimes against humanity or war crimes, and urges him to collaborate 
with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and, as appropriate, 
the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Prevention of Genocide, in 
addressing situations of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions that are of 
particularly serious concern or in which early action might prevent further 
deterioration; 

 15. Welcomes the cooperation established between the Special Rapporteur 
and other United Nations mechanisms and procedures in the field of human rights, 
and encourages the Special Rapporteur to continue efforts in that regard; 

 16. Urges all States, in particular those that have not done so, to cooperate 
with the Special Rapporteur so that his mandate can be carried out effectively, 
including by favourably and rapidly responding to requests for visits, mindful that 
country visits are one of the essential tools for the fulfilment of the mandate of the 
Special Rapporteur, and by responding in a timely manner to communications and 
other requests transmitted to them by the Special Rapporteur; 

 17. Expresses its appreciation to those States that have received the Special 
Rapporteur and asks them to examine his recommendations carefully, invites them 
to inform him of the actions taken on those recommendations, and requests other 
States to cooperate in a similar way; 

 18. Again requests the Secretary-General to continue to use his best 
endeavours in cases where the minimum standards of legal safeguards provided for 
in articles 6, 9, 14 and 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 
appear not to have been respected; 

 19. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with 
adequate human, financial and material resources to enable him to carry out his 
mandate effectively, including through country visits; 

 20. Also requests the Secretary-General to continue, in close collaboration 
with the High Commissioner, in conformity with the mandate of the High 
Commissioner established by the General Assembly in its resolution 48/141 of 
20 December 1993, to ensure that personnel specialized in human rights and 
humanitarian law issues form part of United Nations missions, where appropriate, in 
order to deal with serious violations of human rights, such as extrajudicial, summary 
or arbitrary executions; 

 21. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth and sixty-fifth sessions a report on the situation worldwide in regard to 
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions and his recommendations for more 
effective action to combat this phenomenon; 

 22. Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its sixty-fifth 
session. 

 


