












































United Nations A/C.3/58/L.53

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
17 November 2003

Original: English

03-61664 (E)    181103

*0361664*

Fifty-eighth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 117 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions,
including alternative approaches for improving
the effective enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms

Algeria, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Mozambique, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, South Africa, Swaziland,
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay and
Zambia: draft resolution

The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable
standard of physical and mental health

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,2 the International Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,3 the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women4 and the Convention on
the Rights of the Child,5

Reaffirming also that the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest
attainable standard of physical and mental health is a human right, and that such a
right derives from the inherent dignity of the human person,

Recalling that, according to the constitution of the World Health
Organization,6 health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being
and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity,

__________________
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
4 Resolution 34/180, annex.
5 Resolution 44/25, annex.
6 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 14, No. 221.



2

A/C.3/58/L.53

Recognizing the need to progressively achieve the full realization of the right
of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and
mental health,

Recalling the relevant provisions of declarations and programmes of action
adopted by the major United Nations conferences, summits and special sessions and
at their follow-up meetings, in particular the four health-related development goals
contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,7

Noting Commission on Human Rights resolution 2003/28 of 22 April 20038
and all previous resolutions adopted by the Commission concerning the realization
of the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of
physical and mental health,

Noting also general recommendation 24 on women and health (article 12 of the
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women),
adopted by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women at
its twentieth session,9

Welcoming the adoption of the World Health Organization Framework
Convention on Tobacco Control by the fifty-sixth session of the World Health
Assembly on 21 May 2003,10

Recognizing the important contribution of all regional and subregional
intergovernmental initiatives regarding HIV/AIDS, including those aimed at
strengthening horizontal technical cooperation and encouraging best practices,

Aware that for millions of people throughout the world the full realization of
the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical
and mental health still remains a distant goal and that, in many cases, especially for
those living in poverty, this goal is becoming increasingly remote,

Recognizing the need for States, in cooperation with international
organizations and civil society, including non-governmental organizations and the
private sector, to create favourable conditions at the national, regional and
international levels to ensure the full and effective realization of the right of
everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental
health,

Recognizing also in this regard the important role of civil society, including
non-governmental organizations, and in particular that of people living with
HIV/AIDS in the fight against this pandemic,

Recognizing further the indispensable role that health professionals play in the
promotion and protection of the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest
attainable standard of physical and mental health,

Welcoming the initiatives by the Secretary-General and relevant United
Nations bodies and programmes, including the World Health Organization and the

__________________
7 Resolution 55/2.
8 See E/2003/23 (Part I), chap. II, sect. A.
9 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/54/38),

chap. I.A.
10 Official Records of the World Health Organization, Fifty-sixth World Health Assembly, Geneva,

19-28 May 2003 (WHA56/2003/REC/1), resolution 56.1.



3

A/C.3/58/L.53

Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, as well as public-private
partnership initiatives, such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria, which contribute to improvements in addressing health issues worldwide,
including in developing countries, while noting that further progress should be
achieved in this regard, including in the mobilization of resources,

Concerned about the interrelationships between poverty and the realization of
the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical
and mental health, and in particular about the fact that ill-health can be both a cause
and a consequence of poverty,

Considering that sexual and reproductive health are integral elements of the
right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and
mental health,

Recalling the Declaration on the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights and Public Health, adopted at the Fourth Ministerial
Conference of the World Trade Organization, held in Doha from 9 to 14 November
2001,11 and welcoming the decision of the General Council of the World Trade
Organization of 30 August 2003 on the implementation of paragraph 6 of the Doha
Declaration on the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
Rights and Public Health,12

1. Urges States to take steps, individually and through international
assistance and cooperation, especially economic and technical, to the maximum of
their available resources, with a view to achieving progressively, by all appropriate
means, the full realization of the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest
attainable standard of physical and mental health, including, in particular, the
adoption of legislative measures;

2. Calls upon the international community to continue to assist the
developing countries in promoting the full realization of the right of everyone to the
enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health,
including through financial and technical support as well as training of personnel,
while recognizing that the primary responsibility for promoting and protecting all
human rights rests with States;

3. Calls upon States to guarantee that the right of everyone to the enjoyment
of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health will be exercised
without discrimination of any kind;

4. Reaffirms that the achievement of the highest attainable level of health is
a most important worldwide social goal, the realization of which requires action on
the part of many other social and economic sectors in addition to the health sector;

5. Affirms that good governance at all levels, sound economic policies and
solid democratic institutions responsive to the needs of the people are also key to the
full realization of the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable
standard of physical and mental health;

6. Calls upon States to pay special attention to the situation of vulnerable
groups, including by the adoption of positive measures, in order to safeguard the full

__________________
11 WT/MIN(01)/DEC/2. Available on the Internet at http://docsonline.wto.org.
12 See WT/L/540.



4

A/C.3/58/L.53

realization of the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable
standard of physical and mental health;

7. Also calls upon States to place a gender perspective at the centre of all
policies and programmes affecting women’s health;

8. Further calls upon States to protect and promote sexual and reproductive
health as integral elements of the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest
attainable standard of physical and mental health;

9. Invites States to consider signing and ratifying the World Health
Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, adopted by the fifty-sixth
session of the World Health Assembly on 21 May 2003;10

10. Takes note with interest of the interim report of the Special Rapporteur on
the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical
and mental health;13

11. Also takes note with interest of the approach proposed by the Special
Rapporteur to encompass the responsibilities of States at all levels in his future work
on how to evaluate the progressive realization of the right of everyone to the highest
attainable standard of physical and mental health and of his efforts to apply this
approach to specialized areas of health care, such as essential medicines, sexual and
reproductive health, HIV/AIDS, children’s health and water and sanitation;

12. Welcomes the special attention given by the Special Rapporteur to the
identification of good practices for the effective implementation of the right of
everyone to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health;

13. Recognizes the need for further international cooperation and research to
promote the development of new drugs, vaccines and diagnostic tools for diseases
causing a heavy burden in developing countries, and stresses the need to support
developing countries in their efforts in this regard, taking into account that the
failure of market forces to address such diseases has a direct negative impact on the
progressive realization in these countries of the right of everyone to the highest
attainable standard of physical and mental health;

14. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to
provide the necessary resources for the effective fulfilment of the Special
Rapporteur’s mandate from within existing resources;

15. Calls upon Governments to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur
in the implementation of his mandate, to provide all information requested and to
respond promptly to his communications;

16. Notes the request of the Commission on Human Rights to the Special
Rapporteur, in its resolution 2003/28,8 to submit annually a report to the
Commission and an interim report to the General Assembly on the activities
performed under his mandate;

17. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue consideration of
this matter at its sixtieth session under the same agenda item.

__________________
13 E/CN.4/2003/58.


