












































United Nations A/C.4/56/L.7

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
7 November 2001

Original: English

01-62458 (E)    071101
*0162458*

Fifty-sixth session
Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)
Agenda item 87
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East

Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey
and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: draft resolution

Assistance to Palestine refugees

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 55/123 of 8 December 2000 and all its previous
resolutions on the question, including resolution 194 (III) of 11 December 1948,

Taking note of the report of the Commissioner-General of the United Nations
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East covering the
period from 1 July 2000 to 30 June 2001,1

Stressing the importance of the Middle East peace process,

Welcoming the signature in Washington, D.C., on 13 September 1993 by the
Government of the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, the
representative of the people of Palestine, of the Declaration of Principles on Interim
Self-Government Arrangements2 and the subsequent implementation agreements,

Aware that the Multilateral Working Group on Refugees of the Middle East
peace process has an important role to play in the peace process,

1. Notes with regret that repatriation or compensation of the refugees, as
provided for in paragraph 11 of its resolution 194 (III), has not yet been effected and
that, therefore, the situation of the refugees continues to be a matter of concern;

2. Also notes with regret that the United Nations Conciliation Commission
for Palestine has been unable to find a means of achieving progress in the
implementation of paragraph 11 of General Assembly resolution 194 (III), and
requests the Commission to exert continued efforts towards the implementation of

__________________
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/56/13).
2 A/48/486-S/26560, annex.



2

A/C.4/56/L.7

that paragraph and to report to the Assembly as appropriate, but no later than 1
September 2002;

3. Expresses its thanks to the Commissioner-General and to all the staff of
the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near
East, recognizing that the Agency is doing all it can within the limits of available
resources, and also expresses its thanks to the specialized agencies and to private
organizations for their valuable work in assisting refugees;

4. Notes the significant success of the Peace Implementation Programme of
the Agency since the signing of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-
Government Arrangements,2 and stresses the importance that contributions to this
Programme not be at the expense of the General Fund;

5. Welcomes the increased cooperation between the Agency and
international and regional organizations, States and relevant agencies and non-
governmental organizations, which is essential to enhancing the contributions of the
Agency towards improved conditions for the refugees and thereby the social
stability of the occupied territory;

6. Urges all Member States to extend and expedite aid and assistance with a
view to the economic and social development of the Palestinian people and the
occupied territory;

7. Reiterates its deep concern regarding the persisting critical financial
situation of the Agency, as outlined in the report of the Commissioner-General;1

8. Commends the efforts of the Commissioner-General to move towards
budgetary transparency and internal efficiency, and welcomes in this respect the
unified budget for the biennium 2002-2003;3

9. Welcomes the consultative process between the Agency, host
Governments, the Palestinian Authority and donors on management reforms;

10. Notes with profound concern that the continuing shortfall in the finances
of the Agency, in particular at this time of acute crisis, has a significant negative
influence on the living conditions of the Palestine refugees most in need and that it
therefore has possible consequences for the peace process;

11. Expresses deep concern about the continuing problem of restrictions on
the freedom of movement of Agency staff, vehicles and goods in the occupied
territory, which has an adverse impact on the operational effectiveness of the
Agency’s programmes;

12. Calls upon all donors, as a matter of urgency, to make the most generous
efforts possible to meet the anticipated needs of the Agency, including the remaining
costs of moving the headquarters to Gaza, encourages contributing Governments to
contribute regularly and to consider increasing their regular contributions, and urges
non-contributing Governments to contribute;

13. Decides to extend the mandate of the Agency until 30 June 2005, without
prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 11 of its resolution 194 (III).

__________________
3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 13, addendum

(A/56/13/Add.1).


