











































Microsoft Word - 0461159e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/59/L.57/Rev.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
16 November 2004

Original: English

04-61159 (E)    171104

*0461159*

Fifty-ninth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 105 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoms

Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands,
Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and Uruguay: revised draft resolution

Extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions

The General Assembly,

Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 which guarantees the
right to life, liberty and security of person, and the relevant provisions of the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2

Having regard to the legal framework of the mandate of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions, including the provisions contained in Commission on Human
Rights resolutions 1992/72 of 5 March 19923 and 2001/24 of 23 April 2001,4 as
well as General Assembly resolution 47/136 of 18 December 1992,

Noting its resolutions on the subject of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary
executions and the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights on the subject,

__________________
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992, Supplement No. 2 (E/1992/22),

chap. II, sect. A.
4 Ibid., 2001, Supplement No. 3 (E/2001/23), chap. II, sect. A.



2

A/C.3/59/L.57/Rev.1

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1984/50 of 25 May 1984
and the safeguards guaranteeing protection of the rights of those facing the death
penalty, annexed thereto, and Council resolution 1989/64 of 24 May 1989 on their
implementation, as well as the Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims
of Crime and Abuse of Power adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution
40/34 of 29 November 1985,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1989/65 of 24 May
1989, in which the Council recommended the Principles on the Effective Prevention
and Investigation of Extra-legal, Arbitrary and Summary Executions,

Convinced of the need for effective action to combat and to eliminate the
abhorrent practice of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, which
represent a flagrant violation of the right to life,

1. Strongly condemns once again all the extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary
executions that continue to take place throughout the world;

2. Demands that all Governments ensure that the practice of extrajudicial,
summary or arbitrary executions is brought to an end and that they take effective
action to combat and eliminate the phenomenon in all its forms;

3. Notes with grave concern that situations of extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions may, under certain circumstances, result in genocide or crimes
against humanity, as defined in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of
the Crime of Genocide5 and other relevant international instruments;

4. Notes with deep concern that impunity continues to be a major cause of
the perpetuation of violations of human rights, including extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions;

5. Reiterates the obligation of all Governments to conduct exhaustive and
impartial investigations into all suspected cases of extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions, to identify and bring to justice those responsible, while
ensuring the right of every person to a fair and public hearing by a competent,
independent and impartial tribunal established by law, to grant adequate
compensation within a reasonable time to the victims or their families and to adopt
all necessary measures, including legal and judicial measures, in order to bring an
end to impunity and to prevent the further occurrence of such executions;

6. Acknowledges the establishment of the International Criminal Court as an
important contribution to ending impunity concerning extrajudicial, summary or
arbitrary executions and the fact that ninety-seven States have already ratified or
acceded to and one hundred and thirty-nine States have signed the Rome Statute,6
and calls upon all other States to consider becoming parties to the Statute;

7. Calls upon all States in which the death penalty has not been abolished to
comply with their obligations under relevant provisions of international human
rights instruments, including in particular articles 6, 7 and 14 of the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and articles 37 and 40 of the Convention on

__________________
5 Resolution 260 A (III), annex.
6 Official Records of the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the

Establishment of an International Criminal Court, Rome, 15 June-17 July 1998, vol. I: Final
documents (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.I.5), sect. A.



3

A/C.3/59/L.57/Rev.1

the Rights of the Child,7 bearing in mind the safeguards and guarantees set out in
Economic and Social Council resolutions 1984/50 and 1989/64;

8. Urges Governments:

(a) To undertake all necessary measures to prevent the occurrence of
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, including those occurring in
custody;

(b) To undertake all necessary and possible measures to prevent loss of life,
in particular that of children, during public demonstrations, internal and communal
violence, civil unrest and public emergencies or armed conflicts, and to ensure that
the police, law enforcement agents and security forces act with restraint and in
conformity with international human rights law and international humanitarian law;

(c) To ensure the effective protection of the right to life of all persons under
their jurisdiction, and to investigate promptly and thoroughly all killings, including
those targeted at specific groups of persons, such as racially motivated violence
leading to the death of the victim, killings of members of national, ethnic, religious
or linguistic minorities, of refugees, internally displaced persons, migrants, street
children or members of indigenous communities, killings of persons for reasons
related to their peaceful activities as human rights defenders, lawyers, journalists or
demonstrators, killings committed in the name of passion or in the name of honour,
all killings committed for any discriminatory reason, including sexual orientation, as
well as all other cases where a person’s right to life has been violated, and to bring
those responsible to justice before a competent, independent and impartial judiciary
and to ensure that such killings, including those committed by security forces,
police and law enforcement agents, paramilitary groups or private forces, are neither
condoned nor sanctioned by State officials or personnel;

9. Encourages Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to organize training programmes and to support projects with a view
to training or educating military forces, law enforcement officers and government
officials in human rights and humanitarian law issues connected with their work and
to include a gender perspective in such training, and appeals to the international
community and requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights to support endeavours to that end;

10. Reaffirms Economic and Social Council decision 2004/259 of 22 July
2004 to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions for three years;

11. Takes note of the interim report of the Special Rapporteur to the General
Assembly;8

12. Commends the important role that the Special Rapporteur plays towards
the elimination of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and encourages
the Special Rapporteur to continue, within his mandate, to collect information from
all concerned, to respond effectively to reliable information that comes before him,
to follow up on communications and country visits and to seek the views and
comments of Governments and to reflect them, as appropriate, in his reports;

__________________
7 Resolution 44/25, annex.
8 A/59/319.



4

A/C.3/59/L.57/Rev.1

13. Urges the Special Rapporteur to continue, within his mandate, to bring to
the attention of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and, as
appropriate, the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Prevention of
Genocide, situations of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions that are of
particularly serious concern or where early action might prevent further
deterioration;

14. Welcomes the cooperation established between the Special Rapporteur
and other United Nations mechanisms and procedures relating to human rights, as
well as with medical and forensic experts, and encourages the Special Rapporteur to
continue efforts in that regard;

15. Urges all Governments, in particular those that have not yet done so, to
respond in a timely manner to the communications and requests for information
transmitted to them by the Special Rapporteur, and urges them and all others
concerned to cooperate with and assist the Special Rapporteur so that he may carry
out his mandate effectively, including, where appropriate, by issuing invitations to
the Special Rapporteur when he so requests;

16. Expresses its appreciation to those Governments that have invited the
Special Rapporteur to visit their countries, asks them to examine carefully the
recommendations made by the Special Rapporteur, invites them to report to the
Special Rapporteur on the actions taken on those recommendations, and requests
other Governments to cooperate in a similar way;

17. Again requests the Secretary-General to continue to use his best
endeavours in cases where the minimum standards of legal safeguards provided for
in articles 6, 9, 14 and 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
appear not to have been respected;

18. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with
adequate human, financial and material resources to enable him to carry out his
mandate effectively, including through country visits;

19. Also requests the Secretary-General to continue, in close collaboration
with the High Commissioner, in conformity with the mandate of the High
Commissioner established by the General Assembly in its resolution 48/141 of
20 December 1993, to ensure that personnel specialized in human rights and
humanitarian law issues form part of United Nations missions, where appropriate, in
order to deal with serious violations of human rights, such as extrajudicial, summary
or arbitrary executions;

20. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit an interim report to the
General Assembly at its sixty-first session on the situation worldwide in regard to
extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions and his recommendations for more
effective action to combat this phenomenon.


