





































United Nations A/C.1/58/L.38*

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
24 October 2003

Original: English

03-56160* (E)    241003
*0356160*

Fifty-eighth session
First Committee
Agenda item 73 (o)
General and complete disarmament: nuclear-weapon-free
southern hemisphere and adjacent areas

Angola, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Indonesia, Jamaica, Jordan, Madagascar,
Mexico, Mozambique, New Zealand, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, South Africa, Suriname, Swaziland, Trinidad and Tobago, United
Republic of Tanzania and Venezuela: draft resolution

Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 51/45 B of 10 December 1996, 52/38 N of 9
December 1997, 53/77 Q of 4 December 1998, 54/54 L of 1 December 1999, 55/33 I
of 20 November 2000, 56/24 G of 29 November 2001 and 57/73 of 22 November
2002,

Welcoming the adoption by the Disarmament Commission at its 1999
substantive session of a text entitled “Establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States of the region
concerned”,1

Determined to pursue the total elimination of nuclear weapons,

Determined also to continue to contribute to the prevention of the proliferation
of nuclear weapons in all its aspects and to the process of general and complete
disarmament under strict and effective international control, in particular in the field
of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, with a view to
strengthening international peace and security, in accordance with the purposes and
principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

__________________

* Reissued for technical reasons.
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/54/42),

annex I.



2

A/C.1/58/L.38

Recalling the provisions on nuclear-weapon-free zones of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly,2 the first special session
devoted to disarmament,

Stressing the importance of the treaties of Tlatelolco,3 Rarotonga,4 Bangkok5
and Pelindaba6 establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones, as well as the Antarctic
Treaty,7 to, inter alia, achieve a world entirely free of nuclear weapons,

Underlining the value of enhancing cooperation among the nuclear-weapon-
free-zone treaty members by means of mechanisms such as joint meetings of States
parties, signatories and observers to those treaties,

Recalling the applicable principles and rules of international law relating to the
freedom of the high seas and the rights of passage through maritime space, including
those of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,8

1. Welcomes the continued contribution that the Antarctic Treaty7 and the
treaties of Tlatelolco,3 Rarotonga,4 Bangkok5 and Pelindaba6 are making towards
freeing the southern hemisphere and adjacent areas covered by those treaties from
nuclear weapons;

2. Welcomes the ratification by all original parties of the Treaty of
Rarotonga, and calls upon eligible States to adhere to the South Pacific nuclear-free-
zone treaty and its protocols;

3. Welcomes the efforts towards the completion of the ratification process of
the Treaty of Pelindaba, and calls upon the States of the region that have not yet
done so to sign and ratify the treaty, with the aim of its early entry into force;

4. Calls upon all concerned States to continue to work together in order to
facilitate adherence to the protocols to nuclear-weapon-free-zone treaties by all
relevant States that have not yet done so;

5. Welcomes the steps taken to conclude further nuclear-weapon-free-zone
treaties on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among the States of the region
concerned, and calls upon all States to consider all relevant proposals, including
those reflected in its resolutions on the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
in the Middle East and South Asia;

6. Affirms its conviction of the important role of nuclear-weapon-free zones
in strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime and in extending the areas of
the world that are nuclear-weapon-free, and, with particular reference to the
responsibilities of the nuclear-weapon States, calls upon all States to support the

__________________
2 Resolution S-10/2.
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.
4 See The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 10: 1985 (United Nations publication,

Sales No. E.86.IX.7), appendix VII.
5 Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone.
6 A/50/426, annex.
7 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, No. 5778.
8 See The Law of the Sea: Official Texts of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea

of 10 December 1982 and of the Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 with Index and Excerpts
from the Final Act of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea (United
Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.V.10).



3

A/C.1/58/L.38

process of nuclear disarmament and to work for the total elimination of all nuclear
weapons;

7. Calls upon the States parties and signatories to the treaties of Tlatelolco,
Rarotonga, Bangkok and Pelindaba, in order to pursue the common goals envisaged
in those treaties and to promote the nuclear-weapon-free status of the southern
hemisphere and adjacent areas, to explore and implement further ways and means of
cooperation among themselves and their treaty agencies;

8. Welcomes the vigorous efforts being made among States parties and
signatories to those treaties to promote their common objectives, and considers that
an international conference of States parties and signatories to the nuclear-weapon-
free-zone treaties might be held to support the common goals envisaged in those
treaties;

9. Encourages the competent authorities of the nuclear-weapon-free-zone
treaties to provide assistance to the States parties and signatories to those treaties so
as to facilitate the accomplishment of these goals;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session the
item entitled “Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas”.


