






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.1/61/L.32*

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
16 October 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-56698* (E)    171006   
*0656698* 

Sixty-first session 
First Committee 
Agenda item 90 
General and complete disarmament 

 
 
 

  Australia, Belgium, Chile, Guatemala, Japan, Lithuania, Nepal, Netherlands, 
Spain and Switzerland: draft resolution 
 
 

  Renewed determination towards the total elimination of  
nuclear weapons 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling, the need for all States to take further practical steps and effective 
measures towards the total elimination of nuclear weapons, with a view to achieving 
a peaceful and safe world free of nuclear weapons, and renewing the determination 
to do so, 

 Noting that the ultimate objective of the efforts of States in the disarmament 
process is general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international 
control, 

 Recalling its resolution 60/65 of 8 December 2005, 

 Convinced that every effort should be made to avoid nuclear war and nuclear 
terrorism, 

 Reaffirming the crucial importance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons1 as the cornerstone of the international nuclear disarmament and 
non-proliferation regime, and expressing regret over the lack of agreement on 
substantive issues at the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, as well as over the elimination of references to 
nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation in the World Summit Outcome2 in 2005, 
the year of the sixtieth anniversary of the atomic bombings in Hiroshima and 
Nagasaki, Japan,  

 Recalling the decisions and the resolution of the 1995 Review and Extension 
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 

__________________ 

 * Reissued for technical reasons. 
 1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485. 
 2  See resolution 60/1. 



A/C.1/61/L.32  
 

06-56698 2 
 

Weapons3 and the Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to 
the Treaty,4 

 Recognizing that the enhancement of international peace and security and the 
promotion of nuclear disarmament are mutually reinforcing, 

 Reaffirming that further advancement in nuclear disarmament will contribute 
to consolidating the international regime for nuclear non-proliferation and thereby 
ensuring international peace and security,  

 Expressing deep concern regarding the growing dangers posed by the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, inter alia, nuclear weapons, including 
that caused by proliferation networks,  

 Condemning the nuclear test proclaimed by the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea on 9 October 2006, 

 1. Reaffirms the importance of all States parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons1 complying with their obligations under all the 
articles of the Treaty; 

 2. Stresses the importance of an effective Treaty review process, and calls 
upon all States parties to the Treaty to work together to ensure that the first session 
of the Preparatory Committee in 2007 is held constructively, in order to facilitate the 
successful outcome of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty; 

 3. Reaffirms the importance of the universality of the Treaty, and calls upon 
States not parties to the Treaty to accede to it as non-nuclear-weapon States without 
delay and without conditions, and pending their accession to refrain from acts that 
would defeat the objective and purpose of the Treaty as well as to take practical 
steps in support of the Treaty; 

 4. Encourages further steps leading to nuclear disarmament, to which all 
States parties to the Treaty are committed under article VI of the Treaty, including 
deeper reductions in all types of nuclear weapons, and emphasizes the importance of 
applying irreversibility and verifiability, as well as increased transparency in a way 
that promotes international stability and undiminished security for all, in the process 
of working towards the elimination of nuclear weapons; 

 5. Encourages the Russian Federation and the United States of America to 
implement fully the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions,5 which should serve 
as a step for further nuclear disarmament, and to undertake nuclear arms reductions 
beyond those provided for by the Treaty, while welcoming the progress made by 
nuclear-weapon States, including the Russian Federation and the United States, on 
nuclear arms reductions; 

 6. Encourages States to continue to pursue efforts, within the framework of 
international cooperation, contributing to the reduction of nuclear-weapons-related 
materials; 

__________________ 

 3  See 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex. 

 4  2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons, Final Document, vols. I-III (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I-IV)). 

 5  See CD/1674. 



 A/C.1/61/L.32
 

3 06-56698 
 

 7. Calls for the nuclear-weapon States to further reduce the operational 
status of nuclear weapons systems in ways that promote international stability and 
security; 

 8. Stresses the necessity of a diminishing role for nuclear weapons in 
security policies to minimize the risk that these weapons will ever be used and to 
facilitate the process of their total elimination, in a way that promotes international 
stability and based on the principle of undiminished security for all; 

 9. Urges all States that have not yet done so to sign and ratify the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty6 at the earliest opportunity with a view to 
its early entry into force, stresses the importance of maintaining existing 
moratoriums on nuclear-weapon test explosions pending the entry into force of the 
Treaty, and reaffirms the importance of the continued development of the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty verification regime, including the 
international monitoring system, which will be required to provide assurance of 
compliance with the Treaty; 

 10. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to immediately resume its 
substantive work to its fullest, considering the developments of this year in the 
Conference; 

 11. Emphasizes the importance of the immediate commencement of 
negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty and its early conclusion, and calls 
upon all nuclear-weapon States and States not parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to declare moratoriums on the production of 
fissile material for any nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices pending 
the entry into force of the Treaty; 

 12. Calls upon all States to redouble their efforts to prevent and curb the 
proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction and their means of 
delivery; 

 13. Stresses the importance of further efforts for non-proliferation, including 
the universalization of the International Atomic Energy Agency comprehensive 
safeguards agreements and Model Protocol Additional to the Agreement(s) between 
State(s) and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of 
Safeguards approved by the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency on 15 May 19977 and the full implementation of Security Council 
resolution 1540 (2004) of 28 April 2004; 

 14. Encourages all States to undertake concrete activities to implement, as 
appropriate, the recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary-General 
on the United Nations study on disarmament and non-proliferation education, 
submitted to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session,8 and to voluntarily 
share information on efforts they have been undertaking to that end;  

 15. Encourages the constructive role played by civil society in promoting 
nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. 

 

__________________ 

 6  See resolution 50/245. 
 7  International Atomic Energy Agency, INFCIRC/540 (Corrected). 
 8  A/57/124. 


