











































Microsoft Word - 0455225e.doc


United Nations A/C.1/59/L.30

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
13 October 2004

Original: English

04-55225 (E)    151004

*0455225*

Fifty-ninth session
First Committee
Agenda item 65 (q)
General and complete disarmament: reducing nuclear danger

Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cuba, Fiji, Haiti, India, Jordan, Kenya,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Namibia, Sudan, Viet Nam and
Zambia: draft resolution

Reducing nuclear danger

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind that the use of nuclear weapons poses the most serious threat
to mankind and to the survival of civilization,

Reaffirming that any use or threat of use of nuclear weapons would constitute a
violation of the Charter of the United Nations,

Convinced that the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects would
seriously enhance the danger of nuclear war,

Convinced also that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of
nuclear weapons are essential to remove the danger of nuclear war,

Considering that, until nuclear weapons cease to exist, it is imperative on the
part of the nuclear-weapon States to adopt measures that assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Considering also that the hair-trigger alert of nuclear weapons carries
unacceptable risks of unintentional or accidental use of nuclear weapons, which
would have catastrophic consequences for all mankind,

Emphasizing the imperative need to adopt measures to avoid accidental,
unauthorized or unexplained incidents arising from computer anomaly or other
technical malfunctions,

Conscious that limited steps relating to detargeting have been taken by the
nuclear-weapon States and that further practical, realistic and mutually reinforcing
steps are necessary to contribute to the improvement in the international climate for
negotiations leading to the elimination of nuclear weapons,



2

A/C.1/59/L.30

Mindful that reduction of tensions brought about by a change in nuclear
doctrines would positively impact on international peace and security and improve
the conditions for the further reduction and the elimination of nuclear weapons,

Reiterating the highest priority accorded to nuclear disarmament in the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly1 and by the
international community,

Recalling that in the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on
the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons2 it is stated that there exists an
obligation for all States to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion
negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and
effective international control,

Recalling also the call in the United Nations Millennium Declaration3 to seek
to eliminate the dangers posed by weapons of mass destruction and the resolve to
strive for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear
weapons, including the possibility of convening an international conference to
identify ways of eliminating nuclear dangers,

1. Calls for a review of nuclear doctrines and, in this context, immediate
and urgent steps to reduce the risks of unintentional and accidental use of nuclear
weapons;

2. Requests the five nuclear-weapon States to take measures towards the
implementation of paragraph 1 above;

3. Calls upon Member States to take the necessary measures to prevent the
proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects and to promote nuclear
disarmament, with the objective of eliminating nuclear weapons;

4. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General submitted pursuant to
paragraph 5 of General Assembly resolution 58/47 of 8 December 2003;4

5. Requests the Secretary-General to intensify efforts and support initiatives
that would contribute towards the full implementation of the seven
recommendations identified in the report of the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Matters that would significantly reduce the risk of nuclear war,5 and also to continue
to encourage Member States to endeavour to create conditions that would allow the
emergence of an international consensus to hold an international conference as
proposed in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,3 to identify ways of
eliminating nuclear dangers, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its
sixtieth session;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixtieth session the
item entitled “Reducing nuclear danger”.

__________________
1 Resolution S-10/2.
2 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion,

I.C.J. Reports 1996, p. 226.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 A/59/136.
5 See A/56/400, para. 3.


