















































 United Nations  A/C.3/73/L.30 

  

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
30 October 2018 

Original: English 

 

18-18187 (E)    021118     

*1818187* 
 

 

Seventy-third session 

Third Committee 
Agenda item 74 (b) 

Promotion and protection of human rights: human rights 

questions, including alternative approaches 

for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights 

and fundamental freedoms 
 

 

 

  Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mongolia, 

Nicaragua, Paraguay, Portugal, South Africa and Venezuela (Bolivarian 

Republic of): draft resolution 
 

 

  United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other 

People Working in Rural Areas 
 

 

 The General Assembly,  

 Welcoming the adoption by the Human Rights Council, in its resolution 39/12 

of 28 September 2018,1 of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Peasants 

and Other People Working in Rural Areas,  

 1. Adopts the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other 

People Working in Rural Areas, as contained in the annex to the present resolution;   

 2. Invites Governments, agencies and organizations of the United Nations 

system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to disseminate the 

Declaration and to promote universal respect and understanding thereof;  

 3. Requests the Secretary-General to include the text of the Declaration in 

the next edition of Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments .  

 

__________________ 

 1  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Seventy-third Session, Supplement No. 53A 

(A/73/53/Add.1), chap. II.  

https://undocs.org/A/73/53/Add.1


A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 2/17 

 

Annex 
 

  United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other 

People Working in Rural Areas  
 

 

 The General Assembly,  

 Recalling the principles proclaimed in the Charter of the United Nations, which 

recognize the inherent dignity and worth and the equal and inalienable rights of all 

members of the human family as the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the 

world,  

 Taking into account the principles proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of 

Human Rights, 2  the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 

Racial Discrimination,3 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural 

Rights,4 the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,4 the Convention on 

the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 5 the Convention on 

the Rights of the Child,6 the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights 

of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,7 relevant conventions of the 

International Labour Organization and other relevant international instruments that 

have been adopted at the universal or regional level,   

 Reaffirming the Declaration on the Right to Development,8 and that the right to 

development is an inalienable human right by virtue of which every human person 

and all peoples are entitled to participate in, contribute to and enjoy economic, social, 

cultural and political development, in which all human rights and fundamental 

freedoms can be fully realized,  

 Reaffirming also the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous 

Peoples,9  

 Reaffirming further that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interrelated, 

interdependent and mutually reinforcing and must be treated in a fair and equal 

manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis, and recalling that the 

promotion and protection of one category of rights should never exempt States from 

the promotion and protection of the other rights,   

 Recognizing the special relationship and interaction between peasants and other 

people working in rural areas and the land, water and nature to which they are attached 

and on which they depend for their livelihood,  

 Recognizing also the past, present and future contributions of peasants and other 

people working in rural areas in all regions of the world to development and to 

conserving and improving biodiversity, which constitute the basis of food and 

agricultural production throughout the world, and their contribution in ensuring the 

right to adequate food and food security, which are fundamental to attaining the 

internationally agreed development goals, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 

Development,10  

__________________ 

 2  Resolution 217 A (III).  

 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464.  

 4  Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.  

 5  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, No. 20378.  

 6  Ibid., vol. 1577, No. 27531.  

 7  Ibid., vol. 2220, No. 39481.  

 8  Resolution 41/128, annex.  

 9  Resolution 61/295, annex.  

 10  Resolution 70/1.  

https://undocs.org/A/RES/217(III)
https://undocs.org/A/RES/2200(XXI)
https://undocs.org/A/RES/41/128
https://undocs.org/A/RES/61/295
https://undocs.org/A/RES/70/1


 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

3/17 18-18187 

 

 Concerned that peasants and other people working in rural areas suffer 

disproportionately from poverty, hunger and malnutrition,   

 Concerned also that peasants and other people working in rural areas suffer from 

the burdens caused by environmental degradation and climate change ,  

 Concerned further about peasants ageing around the world and youth 

increasingly migrating to urban areas and turning their backs on agriculture owing to 

the lack of incentives and the drudgery of rural life, and recognizing the need to 

improve the economic diversification of rural areas and the creation of non-farm 

opportunities, especially for rural youth,  

 Alarmed by the increasing number of peasants and other people working in rural 

areas forcibly evicted or displaced every year,  

 Alarmed also by the high incidence of suicide of peasants in several countries,   

 Stressing that peasant women and other rural women play a significant role in 

the economic survival of their families and in contributing to the rural and national 

economy, including through their work in the non-monetized sectors of the economy, 

but are often denied tenure and ownership of land, equal access to land, productive 

resources, financial services, information, employment or social protection, and are 

often victims of violence and discrimination in a variety of forms and manifestations,   

 Stressing also the importance of promoting and protecting the rights of the child 

in rural areas, including through the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition, 

the promotion of quality education and health, protection from exposure to chemicals 

and wastes, and the elimination of child labour, in accordance with relevant human 

rights obligations,  

 Stressing further that several factors make it difficult for peasants and other 

people working in rural areas, including small-scale fishers and fish workers, 

pastoralists, foresters and other local communities, to make their voices heard, to 

defend their human rights and tenure rights, and to secure the sustainable use of the 

natural resources on which they depend,  

 Recognizing that access to land, water, seeds and other natural resources is an 

increasing challenge for rural people, and stressing the importance of improving 

access to productive resources and investment in appropriate rural development,  

 Convinced that peasants and other people working in rural areas should be 

supported in their efforts to promote and undertake sustainable practices of 

agricultural production that support and are in harmony with nature, also referred to 

as Mother Earth in a number of countries and regions, including by respecting the 

biological and natural ability of ecosystems to adapt and regenerate through natural 

processes and cycles,  

 Considering the hazardous and exploitative conditions that exist in many part s 

of the world under which many peasants and other people working in rural areas have 

to work, often denied the opportunity to exercise their fundamental rights at work and 

lacking living wages and social protection,  

 Concerned that individuals, groups and institutions that promote and protect the 

human rights of those working on land and natural resources issues face a high risk 

of being subjected to different forms of intimidation and of violations of their physical 

integrity,  

 Noting that peasants and other people working in rural areas often face 

difficulties in gaining access to courts, police officers, prosecutors and lawyers to the 

extent that they are unable to seek immediate redress or protection from violence, 

abuse and exploitation,  



A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 4/17 

 

 Concerned about speculation on food products, the increasing concentration and 

unbalanced distribution of food systems and the uneven power relations along the 

value chains, which impair the enjoyment of human rights,   

 Reaffirming that the right to development is an inalienable human right by virtue 

of which every human person and all peoples are entitled to participate in, contribute 

to and enjoy economic, social, cultural and political development, in which all human 

rights and fundamental freedoms can be fully realized,  

 Recalling the right of peoples to exercise, subject to the relevant provisions of 

both International Covenants on Human Rights,4 full and complete sovereignty over 

all their natural wealth and resources,  

 Recognizing that the concept of food sovereignty has been used in many States 

and regions to designate the right to define their food and agriculture systems and the 

right to healthy and culturally appropriate food produced through ecologically sound 

and sustainable methods that respect human rights,  

 Realizing that the individual, having duties to other individuals and to the 

community to which he or she belongs, is under a responsibility to strive for the 

promotion and observance of the rights recognized in the present Declaration and in 

national law,  

 Reaffirming the importance of respecting the diversity of cultures and of 

promoting tolerance, dialogue and cooperation,  

 Recalling the extensive body of conventions and recommendations of the 

International Labour Organization on labour protection and decent work,   

 Recalling also the Convention on Biological Diversity 11  and the Nagoya 

Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of 

Benefits Arising from Their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity, 12  

 Recalling further the extensive work of the Food and Agriculture Organization 

of the United Nations and the Committee on World Food Security on the right to food, 

tenure rights, access to natural resources and other rights of peasants, in particular the 

International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, 13 and the 

Organization’s Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of Tenure of 

Land, Fisheries and Forests in the Context of National Food Security, 14 the Voluntary 

Guidelines for Securing Sustainable Small-Scale Fisheries in the Context of Food 

Security and Poverty Eradication and the Voluntary Guidelines to Support  the 

Progressive Realization of the Right to Adequate Food in the Context of National 

Food Security,15  

 Recalling the outcome of the World Conference on Agrarian Reform and Rural 

Development, and the Peasants’ Charter adopted thereat, in which the need for the 

formulation of appropriate national strategies for agrarian reform and rural 

development, and their integration with overall national development strategies, was 

emphasized,  

 Reaffirming that the present Declaration and relevant international agreeme nts 

shall be mutually supportive with a view to enhancing the protection of human rights,   

__________________ 

 11  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619.  

 12  United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27, annex, 

decision X/1.  

 13  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2400, No. 43345.  

 14  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, document CL 144/9 (C 2013/20), 

appendix D.  

 15  E/CN.4/2005/131, annex.  

https://undocs.org/UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27
https://undocs.org/E/CN.4/2005/131


 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

5/17 18-18187 

 

 Determined to take new steps forward in the commitment of the international 

community with a view to achieving substantial progress in human rights endeavours 

by an increased and sustained effort of international cooperation and solidarity,   

 Convinced of the need for greater protection of the human rights of peasants and 

other people working in rural areas, and for a coherent interpretation and application 

of existing international human rights norms and standards in this matter,   

 Declares the following:  

 

  Article 1  
 

1. For the purposes of the present Declaration, a peasant is any person who engages 

or who seeks to engage alone, or in association with others or as a community, in 

small-scale agricultural production for subsistence and/or for the market, and who 

relies significantly, though not necessarily exclusively, on family or household labour 

and other non-monetized ways of organizing labour, and who has a special 

dependency on and attachment to the land.  

2. The present Declaration applies to any person engaged in artisanal or small -

scale agriculture, crop planting, livestock raising, pastoralism, fishing, forestry, 

hunting or gathering, and handicrafts related to agriculture or a related occupation in 

a rural area. It also applies to dependent family members of peasants.   

3. The present Declaration also applies to indigenous peoples and local 

communities working on the land, transhumant, nomadic and semi-nomadic 

communities, and the landless engaged in the above-mentioned activities.  

4. The present Declaration further applies to hired workers, including all migrant 

workers regardless of their migration status, and seasonal workers, on plantations, 

agricultural farms, forests and farms in aquaculture and in agro-industrial enterprises.  

 

  Article 2  
 

1. States shall respect, protect and fulfil the rights of peasants and other people 

working in rural areas. They shall promptly take legislative, administrative a nd other 

appropriate steps to achieve progressively the full realization of the rights of the 

present Declaration that cannot be immediately guaranteed.   

2. Particular attention shall be paid in the implementation of the present 

Declaration to the rights and special needs of peasants and other people working in 

rural areas, including older persons, women, youth, children and persons with 

disabilities, taking into account the need to address multiple forms of discrimination.   

3. Without disregarding specific legislation on indigenous peoples, before 

adopting and implementing legislation and policies, international agreements and 

other decision-making processes that may affect the rights of peasants and other 

people working in rural areas, States shall consult and cooperate in good faith with 

peasants and other people working in rural areas through their own representative 

institutions, engaging with and seeking the support of peasants and other people 

working in rural areas who could be affected by decisions before those decisions are 

made, and responding to their contributions, taking into consideration existing power 

imbalances between different parties and ensuring active, free, effective, meaningful 

and informed participation of individuals and groups in associated decision-making 

processes.  

4. States shall elaborate, interpret and apply relevant international agreements and 

standards to which they are a party in a manner consistent with their human rights 

obligations as applicable to peasants and other people working in rural areas.  



A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 6/17 

 

5. States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that non-State actors that they 

are in a position to regulate, such as private individuals and organizations, and 

transnational corporations and other business enterprises, respect and strengthen the 

rights of peasants and other people working in rural areas.   

6. States, recognizing the importance of international cooperation in support of 

national efforts for the realization of the purposes and objectives of the present 

Declaration, shall take appropriate and effective measures in this regard, between and 

among States and, as appropriate, in partnership with relevant international and 

regional organizations and civil society, in particular organizations of peasants and 

other people working in rural areas, among others. Such measures could include:   

 (a) Ensuring that relevant international cooperation, including international 

development programmes, is inclusive, accessible and pertinent to peasants and other 

people working in rural areas;  

 (b) Facilitating and supporting capacity-building, including through the 

exchange and sharing of information, experiences, training programmes and best 

practices;  

 (c) Facilitating cooperation in research and in access to scientific and 

technical knowledge;  

 (d) Providing, as appropriate, technical and economic assistance, facilitating 

access to and sharing of accessible technologies, and through the transfer of 

technologies, particularly to developing countries, on mutually agreed ter ms;  

 (e) Improving the functioning of markets at the global level and facilitating 

timely access to market information, including on food reserves, in order to help to 

limit extreme food price volatility and the attractiveness of speculation.   

 

  Article 3 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to the full 

enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms recognized in the Charter 

of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2 and all other 

international human rights instruments, free from any kind of discrimination in the 

exercise of their rights based on any grounds such as origin, nationality, race, colour, 

descent, sex, language, culture, marital status, property, disability, age, political or 

other opinion, religion, birth or economic, social or other status.   

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to determine and 

develop priorities and strategies to exercise their right to development.   

3. States shall take appropriate measures to eliminate conditions that cause or help 

to perpetuate discrimination, including multiple and intersecting forms of 

discrimination, against peasants and people working in rural areas.   

 

  Article 4 
 

1. States shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate all forms of 

discrimination against peasant women and other women working in rural areas and to 

promote their empowerment in order to ensure, on the basis of equality between men 

and women, that they fully and equally enjoy all human rights and fundamental 

freedoms and that they are able to freely pursue, participate in and benefit from rural 

economic, social, political and cultural development.   

2. States shall ensure that peasant women and other women working in rural areas 

enjoy without discrimination all the human rights and fundamental freedoms set out 



 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

7/17 18-18187 

 

in the present Declaration and in other international human rights instruments, 

including the rights:  

 (a) To participate equally and effectively in the formulation and 

implementation of development planning at all levels;  

 (b) To have equal access to the highest attainable standard of physical and 

mental health, including adequate health-care facilities, information, counselling and 

services in family planning;  

 (c) To benefit directly from social security programmes;  

 (d) To receive all types of training and education, whether formal or 

non-formal, including training and education relating to functional literacy, and to 

benefit from all community and extension services in order to increase their technical 

proficiency;  

 (e) To organize self-help groups, associations and cooperatives in order to 

obtain equal access to economic opportunities through employment or self -

employment;  

 (f) To participate in all community activities;  

 (g) To have equal access to financial services, agricultural credit and loans, 

marketing facilities and appropriate technology;  

 (h) To equal access to, use of and management of land and natural resources, 

and to equal or priority treatment in land and agrarian reform and in land resettlement 

schemes;  

 (i) To decent employment, equal remuneration and social protection benefits, 

and to have access to income-generating activities;  

 (j) To be free from all forms of violence.  

 

  Article 5 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to have access 

to and to use in a sustainable manner the natural resources present in their 

communities that are required to enjoy adequate living conditions, in accordance with 

article 28 of the present Declaration. They also have the right to participate in the 

management of these resources.  

2. States shall take measures to ensure that any exploitation affecting the natural 

resources that peasants and other people working in rural areas traditionally hold or 

use is permitted based on, but not limited to:  

 (a) A duly conducted social and environmental impact assessment;   

 (b) Consultations in good faith, in accordance with article 2 (3) of the present 

Declaration;  

 (c) Modalities for the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits of such 

exploitation that have been established on mutually agreed terms between those 

exploiting the natural resources and the peasants and other people working in rural 

areas.  

 

  Article 6 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to life, physical 

and mental integrity, liberty and security of person.  



A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 8/17 

 

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas shall not be subjected to 

arbitrary arrest or detention, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment 

or punishment, and shall not be held in slavery or servitude.   

 

  Article 7 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to recognition 

everywhere as persons before the law.  

2. States shall take appropriate measures to facilitate the freedom of movement of 

peasants and other people working in rural areas.  

3. States shall, where required, take appropriate measures to cooperate with a view 

to addressing transboundary tenure issues affecting peasants and other people 

working in rural areas that cross international boundaries, in accordance with 

article 28 of the present Declaration.  

 

  Article 8 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to freedom of 

thought, belief, conscience, religion, opinion, expression and peaceful assembly. 

They have the right to express their opinion, either orally, in writing or in print, in the 

form of art, or through any other media of their choice, at the local, regional, national 

and international levels.  

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right, individually 

and/or collectively, in association with others or as a community, to participate in 

peaceful activities against violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms.   

3. The exercise of the rights provided for in the present article carries with it 

special duties and responsibilities. It may therefore be subject to certain restrictions, 

but these shall only be such as are provided for by law and are necessary:   

 (a) For respect of the rights or reputations of others;  

 (b) For the protection of national security or of public order  (ordre public), or 

of public health or morals.  

4. States shall take all necessary measures to ensure protection by the competent 

authorities of everyone, individually and in association with others, against any 

violence, threat, retaliation, de jure or de facto discrimination, pressure or any other 

arbitrary action as a consequence of his or her legitimate exercise and defence of the 

rights described in the present Declaration.  

 

  Article 9  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to form and join 

organizations, trade unions, cooperatives or any other organization or association of 

their own choosing for the protection of their interests, and to bargain collectively. 

Such organizations shall be independent and voluntary in character, and remain free 

from all interference, coercion or repression.   

2. No restrictions may be placed on the exercise of this right other than those which 

are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of 

national security or public safety, public order (ordre public), the protection of public 

health or morals or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.   

3. States shall take appropriate measures to encourage the establishment of 

organizations of peasants and other people working in rural areas, including unions, 

cooperatives or other organizations, particularly with a view to eliminating obstacles 

to their establishment, growth and pursuit of lawful activities, including any 



 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

9/17 18-18187 

 

legislative or administrative discrimination against such organizations and their 

members, and provide them with support to strengthen their position when 

negotiating contractual arrangements in order to ensure that conditions and prices are 

fair and stable and do not violate their rights to dignity and to a decent life.   

 

  Article 10 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to active and 

free participation, directly and/or through their representative organizations, in the 

preparation and implementation of policies, programmes and projects that may affect 

their lives, land and livelihoods.  

2. States shall promote the participation, directly and/or through their 

representative organizations, of peasants and other people working in rural areas in 

decision-making processes that may affect their lives, land and livelihoods; this 

includes respecting the establishment and growth of strong and independent 

organizations of peasants and other people working in rural areas and promoting their 

participation in the preparation and implementation of food safety, labour and 

environmental standards that may affect them.  

 

  Article 11 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to seek, receive, 

develop and impart information, including information about factors that may affect 

the production, processing, marketing and distribution of their products.   

2. States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that peasants and other people 

working in rural areas have access to relevant, transparent, timely and adequate 

information in a language and form and through means adequate to their cultural 

methods so as to promote their empowerment and to ensure their effective 

participation in decision-making in matters that may affect their lives, land and 

livelihoods.  

3. States shall take appropriate measures to promote the access of peasants and 

other people working in rural areas to a fair, impartial and appropriate system of 

evaluation and certification of the quality of their products at the local, national and 

international levels, and to promote their participation in its formulation.   

 

  Article 12  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to effective and 

non-discriminatory access to justice, including access to fair procedures for the 

resolution of disputes and to effective remedies for all infringements of their human 

rights. Such decisions shall give due consideration to their customs, traditions, rule s 

and legal systems in conformity with relevant obligations under international human 

rights law.  

2. States shall provide for non-discriminatory access, through impartial and 

competent judicial and administrative bodies, to timely, affordable and effective 

means of resolving disputes in the language of the persons concerned, and shall 

provide effective and prompt remedies, which may include a right of appeal, 

restitution, indemnity, compensation and reparation.  

3. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to legal 

assistance. States shall consider additional measures, including legal aid, to support 

peasants and other people working in rural areas who would otherwise not have access 

to administrative and judicial services.  



A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 10/17 

 

4. States shall consider measures to strengthen relevant national institutions for the 

promotion and protection of all human rights, including the rights described in the 

present Declaration.  

5. States shall provide peasants and other people working in rural areas with 

effective mechanisms for the prevention of and redress for any action that has the aim 

or effect of violating their human rights, arbitrarily dispossessing them of their land 

and natural resources or of depriving them of their means of subsistence and integrity, 

and for any form of forced sedentarization or population displacement.   

 

  Article 13  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to work, which 

includes the right to choose freely the way they earn their living.   

2. Children of peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to 

be protected from any work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the 

child’s education, or to be harmful to a child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, 

moral or social development.  

3. States shall create an enabling environment with opportunities for work for 

peasants and other people working in rural areas and their families that provide 

remuneration allowing for an adequate standard of living.   

4. In States facing high levels of rural poverty and in the absence of employment 

opportunities in other sectors, States shall take appropriate measures to establish and 

promote sustainable food systems that are sufficiently labour-intensive to contribute 

to the creation of decent employment.  

5. States, taking into account the specific characteristics of peasant agriculture and 

small-scale fisheries, shall monitor compliance with labour legislation by allocating, 

where required, appropriate resources to ensure the effective operation of labour 

inspectorates in rural areas.  

6. No one shall be required to perform forced, bonded or compulsory labour, be 

subjected to the risk of becoming a victim of human trafficking or be held in any other 

form of contemporary slavery. States shall, in consultation and cooperation with 

peasants and other people working in rural areas and their representative 

organizations, take appropriate measures to protect them from economic exploitation, 

child labour and all forms of contemporary slavery, such as debt bondage of women, 

men and children, and forced labour, including of fishers and fish workers, forest 

workers, or seasonal or migrant workers.  

 

  Article 14  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas, irrespective of whether  they 

are temporary, seasonal or migrant workers, have the rights to work in safe and 

healthy working conditions, to participate in the application and review of safety and 

health measures, to select safety and health representatives and representatives in  

safety and health committees, to the implementation of measures to prevent, reduce 

and control hazards and risks, to have access to adequate and appropriate protective 

clothing and equipment and to adequate information and training on occupational 

safety, to work free from violence and harassment, including sexual harassment, to 

report unsafe and unhealthy working conditions and to remove themselves from 

danger resulting from their work activity when they reasonably believe that there is 

an imminent and serious risk to their safety or health, without being subjected to any 

work-related retaliation for exercising such rights.  



 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

11/17 18-18187 

 

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right not to use or to 

be exposed to hazardous substances or toxic chemicals, including agrochemicals or 

agricultural or industrial pollutants.  

3. States shall take appropriate measures to ensure favourable safe and healthy 

working conditions for peasants and other people working in rural areas, and shall in 

particular designate appropriate competent authorities responsible, and establish 

mechanisms for intersectoral coordination for the implementation of policies and 

enforcement of national laws and regulations on occupational safety and health in 

agriculture, the agro-industry and fisheries, provide for corrective measures and 

appropriate penalties, and establish and support adequate and appropriate systems of 

inspection for rural workplaces.  

4. States shall take all measures necessary to ensure:  

 (a) The prevention of risks to health and safety derived from technologies, 

chemicals and agricultural practices, including through their prohibition and restriction;   

 (b) An appropriate national system or any other system approved by the 

competent authority establishing specific criteria for the importation, classification, 

packaging, distribution, labelling and use of chemicals used in agriculture, and for 

their prohibition or restriction;  

 (c) That those who produce, import, provide, sell, transfer, store or dispose of 

chemicals used in agriculture comply with national or other recognized safety and 

health standards, and provide adequate and appropriate information to users in the 

appropriate official language or languages of the country and, on request, to the 

competent authority;  

 (d) That there is a suitable system for the safe collection, recycling and 

disposal of chemical waste, obsolete chemicals and empty containers of chemicals so 

as to avoid their use for other purposes and to eliminate or minimize the risks to safety 

and health and to the environment;  

 (e) The development and implementation of educational and public awareness 

programmes on the health and environmental effects of chemicals commonly used in 

rural areas, and on alternatives to them.  

 

  Article 15  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to adequate food 

and the fundamental right to be free from hunger. This includes the right to produce 

food and the right to adequate nutrition, which guarantee the possibility of enjoying 

the highest degree of physical, emotional and intellectual development.   

2. States shall ensure that peasants and other people working in rural areas enjoy 

physical and economic access at all times to sufficient and adequate food that is 

produced and consumed sustainably and equitably, respecting their cultures, 

preserving access to food for future generations, and that ensures a physically and 

mentally fulfilling and dignified life for them, individually and/or collectively, 

responding to their needs.  

3. States shall take appropriate measures to combat malnutrition in rural children, 

including within the framework of primary health care through, inter alia, the 

application of readily available technology and the provision of adequate nutritious 

food and by ensuring that women have adequate nutrition during pregnancy and 

lactation. States shall also ensure that all segments of society, in particular parents 

and children, are informed, have access to nutritional education and are supported in 

the use of basic knowledge on child nutrition and the advantages of breastfeeding.   



A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 12/17 

 

4. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to determine 

their own food and agriculture systems, recognized by many States and regions as the 

right to food sovereignty. This includes the right to participate in decision-making 

processes on food and agriculture policy and the right to healthy and adequate food 

produced through ecologically sound and sustainable methods that respect their 

cultures.  

5. States shall formulate, in partnership with peasants and other people working in 

rural areas, public policies at the local, national, regional and international levels to 

advance and protect the right to adequate food, food security and food sovereignty 

and sustainable and equitable food systems that promote and protect the rights 

contained in the present Declaration. States shall establish mechanisms to ensure the 

coherence of their agricultural, economic, social, cultural and development policies 

with the realization of the rights contained in the present Declaration.  

 

  Article 16 
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to an adequate 

standard of living for themselves and their families and to facilitated access to the 

means of production necessary to achieve them, including production tools, technical 

assistance, credit, insurance and other financial services. They also have the right to 

engage freely, individually and/or collectively, in association with others or as a 

community, in traditional ways of farming, fishing, livestock rearing and forestry and 

to develop community-based commercialization systems.  

2. States shall take appropriate measures to favour the access of peasants and other 

people working in rural areas to the means of transportation and the processing, 

drying and storage facilities necessary for selling their products on local, national and 

regional markets at prices that guarantee them a decent income and livelihood.   

3. States shall take appropriate measures to strengthen and support local, national 

and regional markets in ways that facilitate and ensure that peasants and other people 

working in rural areas have, full and equitable access and participation in these 

markets to sell their products at prices that allow them and their  families to attain an 

adequate standard of living.  

4. States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that their rural development, 

agricultural, environmental, trade and investment policies and programmes contribute 

effectively to protecting and strengthening local livelihood options and to the 

transition to sustainable modes of agricultural production. States shall stimulate 

sustainable production, including agroecological and organic production, whenever 

possible, and facilitate direct farmer-to-consumer sales.  

5. States shall take appropriate measures to strengthen the resilience of peasants 

and other people working in rural areas against natural disasters and other severe 

disruptions, such as market failures.  

6. States shall take appropriate measures to ensure fair wages and equal 

remuneration for work of equal value, without distinction of any kind.   

 

  Article 17  
 

1. Peasants and other people living in rural areas have the right to land, 

individually and/or collectively, in accordance with article 28 of the present 

Declaration, including the right to have access to, sustainably use and manage land 

and the water bodies, coastal seas, fisheries, pastures and forests therein, to achieve 

an adequate standard of living, to have a place to live in  security, peace and dignity 

and to develop their cultures.  



 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

13/17 18-18187 

 

2. States shall take appropriate measures to remove and prohibit all forms of 

discrimination relating to the right to land, including those resulting from change of 

marital status, lack of legal capacity or lack of access to economic resources.  

3. States shall take appropriate measures to provide legal recognition for land 

tenure rights, including customary land tenure rights not currently protected by law, 

recognizing the existence of different models and systems. States shall protect 

legitimate tenure and ensure that peasants and other people working in rural areas are 

not arbitrarily or unlawfully evicted and that their rights are not otherwise 

extinguished or infringed. States shall recognize and protect the natural commons and 

their related systems of collective use and management.   

4. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to be protected 

against arbitrary and unlawful displacement from their land or place of habitual  

residence, or from other natural resources used in their activities and necessary for 

the enjoyment of adequate living conditions. States shall incorporate protections 

against displacement into domestic legislation that are consistent with international 

human rights and humanitarian law. States shall prohibit arbitrary and unlawful forced 

eviction, the destruction of agricultural areas and the confiscation or expropriation of 

land and other natural resources, including as a punitive measure or as a means o r 

method of war.  

5. Peasants and other people working in rural areas who have been arbitrarily or 

unlawfully deprived of their lands have the right, individually and/or collectively, in 

association with others or as a community, to return to their land of  which they were 

arbitrarily or unlawfully deprived, including in cases of natural disasters and/or armed 

conflict and to have restored their access to the natural resources used in their 

activities and necessary for the enjoyment of adequate living condit ions, whenever 

possible, or to receive just, fair and lawful compensation when their return is not 

possible.  

6. Where appropriate, States shall take appropriate measures to carry out agrarian 

reforms in order to facilitate the broad and equitable access to land and other natural 

resources necessary to ensure that peasants and other people working in rural areas 

enjoy adequate living conditions, and to limit excessive concentration and control of 

land, taking into account its social function. Landless peasants, young people, small-

scale fishers and other rural workers should be given priority in the allocation of 

public lands, fisheries and forests.  

7. States shall take measures aimed at the conservation and sustainable use of land 

and other natural resources used in their production, including through agroecology, 

and ensure the conditions for the regeneration of biological and other natural 

capacities and cycles.  

 

  Article 18  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to the 

conservation and protection of the environment and the productive capacity of their 

lands, and of the resources that they use and manage.  

2. States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that peasants and other people 

working in rural areas enjoy, without discrimination, a safe, clean and healthy 

environment.  

3. States shall comply with their respective international obligations to combat 

climate change. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to 

contribute to the design and implementation of national and local climate change 

adaptation and mitigation policies, including through the use of practices and 

traditional knowledge.  



A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 14/17 

 

4. States shall take effective measures to ensure that no hazardous material, 

substance or waste is stored or disposed of on the land of peasants and other people 

working in rural areas, and shall cooperate to address the threats to the enjoyment of 

their rights that result from transboundary environmental harm.   

5. States shall protect peasants and other people working in rural areas against 

abuses by non-State actors, including by enforcing environmental laws that 

contribute, directly or indirectly, to the protection of the rights of peasants or other 

people working in rural areas.  

 

  Article 19  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to seeds, in 

accordance with article 28 of the present Declaration, including:   

 (a) The right to the protection of traditional knowledge relevant to plant 

genetic resources for food and agriculture;  

 (b) The right to equitably participate in sharing the benefits arising from the 

utilization of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture;   

 (c) The right to participate in the making of decisions on matters relating to 

the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture;  

 (d) The right to save, use, exchange and sell their farm-saved seed or 

propagating material.  

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to maintain, 

control, protect and develop their own seeds and traditional knowledge.   

3. States shall take measures to respect, protect and fulfil the right to seeds of 

peasants and other people working in rural areas.  

4. States shall ensure that seeds of sufficient quality and quantity are available to 

peasants at the most suitable time for planting and at an affordable price.   

5. States shall recognize the rights of peasants to rely either on their own seeds or 

on other locally available seeds of their choice and to decide on the crops and species 

that they wish to grow.  

6. States shall take appropriate measures to support peasant seed systems and 

promote the use of peasant seeds and agrobiodiversity.   

7. States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that agricultural research and 

development integrates the needs of peasants and other people working in rural areas 

and to ensure their active participation in the definition of priorities and the 

undertaking of research and development, taking into account their experience, and  

increase investment in research and the development of orphan crops and seeds that 

respond to the needs of peasants and other people working in rural areas.   

8. States shall ensure that seed policies, plant variety protection and other 

intellectual property laws, certification schemes and seed marketing laws respect and 

take into account the rights, needs and realities of peasants and other people working 

in rural areas.  

 

  Article 20  
 

1. States shall take appropriate measures, in accordance with their r elevant 

international obligations, to prevent the depletion and ensure the conservation and 

sustainable use of biodiversity in order to promote and protect the full enjoyment of 

the rights of peasants and other people working in rural areas.   



 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

15/17 18-18187 

 

2. States shall take appropriate measures to promote and protect the traditional 

knowledge, innovation and practices of peasants and other people working in rural 

areas, including traditional agrarian, pastoral, forestry, fisheries, livestock and 

agroecological systems relevant to the conservation and sustainable use of biological 

diversity.  

3. States shall prevent risks of violation of the rights of peasants and other people 

working in rural areas arising from the development, handling, transport, use, transfer 

or release of any living modified organisms.  

 

  Article 21  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the human rights to safe 

and clean drinking water and to sanitation, which are essential for the full enjoyment 

of life and all human rights and human dignity. These rights include water supply 

systems and sanitation facilities that are of good quality, affordable and physically 

accessible, and non-discriminatory and acceptable in cultural and gender terms.   

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to water for 

personal and domestic use, farming, fishing and livestock keeping and to securing 

other water-related livelihoods, ensuring the conservation, restoration and sustainable 

use of water. They have the right to equitable access to water and water management 

systems, and to be free from arbitrary disconnections or the contamination of water 

supplies.  

3. States shall respect, protect and ensure access to water, including in customary 

and community-based water management systems, on a non-discriminatory basis, and 

shall take measures to guarantee affordable water for personal, domestic and 

productive uses, and improved sanitation, in particular for rural women and girls and 

persons belonging to disadvantaged or marginalized groups, such as nomadic 

pastoralists, workers on plantations, all migrants regardless of their migration status 

and persons living in irregular or informal settlements. States shall promote 

appropriate and affordable technologies, including irrigation technology, 

technologies for the reuse of treated wastewater and for water collection and storage.   

4. States shall protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including mountains, 

forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes, from overuse and contaminat ion by 

harmful substances, in particular by industrial effluent and concentrated minerals and 

chemicals that result in slow and fast poisoning.  

5. States shall prevent third parties from impairing the enjoyment of the right to 

water of peasants and other people working in rural areas. States shall prioritize water 

for human needs before other uses, promoting its conservation, restoration and 

sustainable use.  

 

  Article 22  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to social secur ity, 

including social insurance.  

2. States shall, according to their national circumstances, take appropriate steps to 

promote the enjoyment of the right to social security of all migrant workers in rural 

areas.  

3. States shall recognize the rights of peasants and other people working in rural 

areas to social security, including social insurance, and, in accordance with national 

circumstances, should establish or maintain their social protection floors comprising 

basic social security guarantees. The guarantees should ensure at a minimum that, 

over the life cycle, all in need have access to essential health care and to basic income 



A/C.3/73/L.30 
 

 

18-18187 16/17 

 

security, which together secure effective access to goods and services defined as 

necessary at the national level.  

4. Basic social security guarantees should be established by law. Impartial, 

transparent, effective, accessible and affordable grievance and appeal procedures 

should also be specified. Systems should be in place to enhance compliance with 

national legal frameworks.  

 

  Article 23  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to the enjoyment 

of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health. They also have the 

right to have access, without any discrimination, to all social and health services.  

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to use and protect 

their traditional medicines and to maintain their health practices, including access to 

and conservation of their plants, animals and minerals for medicinal use.  

3. States shall guarantee access to health facilities, goods and services in rural 

areas on a non-discriminatory basis, especially for groups in vulnerable situations, 

access to essential medicines, immunization against major infectious diseases, 

reproductive health, information concerning the main health problems affecting the 

community, including methods of preventing and controlling them, maternal and child 

health care, as well as training for health personnel, including education on health 

and human rights.  

 

  Article 24  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to adequate 

housing. They have the right to sustain a secure home and community in which to live 

in peace and dignity, and the right to non-discrimination in this context.  

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to be protected 

against forced eviction from their home, harassment and other threats.   

3. States shall not, arbitrarily or unlawfully, either temporarily or permanently, 

remove peasants or other people working in rural areas against their will from the 

homes or land that they occupy without providing or affording access to appropriate 

forms of legal or other protection. When eviction is unavoidable, the State must 

provide or ensure fair and just compensation for any material or other losses.   

 

  Article 25  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to adequate 

training suited to the specific agroecological, sociocultural and economic environments  

in which they find themselves. Issues covered by training programmes should include, 

but not be limited to, improving productivity, marketing and the ability to cope with 

pests, pathogens, system shocks, the effects of chemicals, climate change and 

weather-related events.  

2. All children of peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right 

to education in accordance with their culture and with all the rights contained in 

human rights instruments.  

3. States shall encourage equitable and participatory farmer-scientist partnerships, 

such as farmer field schools, participatory plant breeding and plant and animal health 

clinics, to respond more appropriately to the immediate and emerging challenges that 

peasants and other people working in rural areas face.  



 
A/C.3/73/L.30 

 

17/17 18-18187 

 

4. States shall invest in providing training, market information and advisory 

services at the farm level.  

 

  Article 26  
 

1. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right to enjoy their 

own culture and to pursue freely their cultural development, without interference or 

any form of discrimination. They also have the right to maintain, express, control, 

protect and develop their traditional and local knowledge, such as ways of life, 

methods of production or technology, or customs and tradition. No one may invoke 

cultural rights to infringe upon the human rights guaranteed by international law or 

to limit their scope.  

2. Peasants and other people working in rural areas have the right, individually 

and/or collectively, in association with others or as a community, to express their local 

customs, languages, culture, religions, literature and art, in conformity with 

international human rights standards.  

3. States shall respect, and take measures to recognize and protect, the right s of 

peasants and other people working in rural areas relating to their traditional 

knowledge and eliminate discrimination against the traditional knowledge, practices 

and technologies of peasants and other people working in rural areas.   

 

  Article 27  
 

1. The specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system 

and other intergovernmental organizations, including international and regional 

financial organizations, shall contribute to the full realization of the present 

Declaration, including through the mobilization of, inter alia, development assistance 

and cooperation. Ways and means of ensuring the participation of peasants and other 

people working in rural areas on issues affecting them shall be considered.   

2. The United Nations and its specialized agencies, funds and programmes, and 

other intergovernmental organizations, including international and regional financial 

organizations, shall promote respect for and the full application of the present 

Declaration and follow up on its effectiveness.  

 

  Article 28  
 

1. Nothing in the present Declaration may be construed as diminishing, impairing 

or nullifying the rights that peasants and other people working in rural areas and 

indigenous peoples currently have or may acquire in the future.   

2. The human rights and fundamental freedoms of all, without discrimination of 

any kind, shall be respected in the exercise of the rights enunciated in the present 

Declaration. The exercise of the rights set forth in the present Declaration shall be 

subject only to such limitations as are determined by law and that are compliant with 

international human rights obligations. Any such limitations shall be 

non-discriminatory and necessary solely for the purpose of securing due recognition 

and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and for meeting the just and most 

compelling requirements of a democratic society.  

 


