






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/63/L.43

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
30 October 2008 
 
Original: English 

 

08-58140 (E)    051108     
*0858140* 

Sixty-third session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 64 (b) 
Promotion and protection of human rights: human  
rights questions, Including alternative approaches for  
improving the effective enjoyment of human rights  
and fundamental freedoms 

 
 
 

  Bolivia, Cuba, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Sudan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of): 
draft resolution 
 
 

  Respect for the right to universal freedom of travel and the vital 
importance of family reunification 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 61/162 of 19 December 2006, 

 Reaffirming that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal, 
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated, 

 Recalling the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 as 
well as article 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 

 Stressing that, as stated in the Programme of Action of the International 
Conference on Population and Development,3 family reunification of documented 
migrants is an important factor in international migration and that remittances by 
documented migrants to their countries of origin often constitute a very important 
source of foreign exchange and are instrumental in improving the well-being of 
relatives left behind, 

 Noting with great concern that, while some positive developments have 
occurred during the past few years in the accomplishment of the objectives 
highlighted in all previous resolutions adopted by the General Assembly on this 
matter,4 in particular relating to facilitating the flow of remittances across 

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 

1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex. 
 4  Resolutions 57/227, 59/203 and 61/162. 



A/C.3/63/L.43  
 

08-58140 2 
 

international borders to help families, in certain cases it has been reported that 
measures have been adopted that increased the restrictions imposed on documented 
migrants in relation to family reunification and the possibility of sending 
remittances to their relatives in the country of origin, 

 Recalling that the family is the basic unit of society and, as such, should be 
strengthened, and that it is entitled to receive comprehensive protection and support, 

 1. Once again calls upon all States to guarantee the universally recognized 
freedom of travel to all foreign nationals legally residing in their territory; 

 2. Reaffirms that all Governments, in particular those of receiving countries, 
must recognize the vital importance of family reunification and promote its 
incorporation into national legislation in order to ensure protection of the unity of 
families of documented migrants; 

 3. Calls upon all States to allow, in conformity with international 
legislation, the free flow of financial remittances by foreign nationals residing in 
their territory to relatives in the country of origin; 

 4. Also calls upon all States to refrain from enacting, and to repeal if it 
already exists, legislation intended as a coercive measure that discriminates against 
individuals or groups of legal migrants by adversely affecting family reunification 
and the right to send financial remittances to relatives in the country of origin; 

 5. Decides to continue its consideration of the question at its sixty-fifth 
session under the item entitled “Promotion and protection of human rights”. 

 


