






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.2/64/L.40

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
17 November 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-61013 (E)    181109 
*0961013*   

Sixty-fourth session 
Second Committee 
Agenda item 51 (a) 
Macroeconomic policy questions: international trade  
and development 

 
 
 

  Sudan:* draft resolution 
 
 

  International trade and development 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 56/178 of 21 December 2001, 57/235 of 20 December 
2002, 58/197 of 23 December 2003, 59/221 of 22 December 2004, 60/184 of 
22 December 2005, 61/186 of 20 December 2006, 62/184 of 19 December 2007 and 
63/203 of 19 December 2008 on international trade and development,  

 Recalling also the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 as well as the 
outcomes of the International Conference on Financing for Development,2 the 
World Summit on Sustainable Development,3 the 2005 World Summit Outcome4 
and the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development,5  

 Recalling further the outcome of the Conference on the World Financial and 
Economic Crisis and its Impact on Development,6  

 Reaffirming the value of multilateralism to the global trading system and the 
commitment to achieving a universal, rule-based, open, non-discriminatory and 
equitable multilateral trading system that contributes to growth, sustainable 
development and employment generation in all sectors, and emphasizing that 

__________________ 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and 
China. 

 1  See resolution 55/2. 
 2  Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 

18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, 
annex. 

 3  Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and 
corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex, and resolution 2, annex. 

 4  See resolution 60/1. 
 5  Resolution 63/239, annex. 
 6  Resolution 63/303, annex. 



A/C.2/64/L.40  
 

09-61013 2 
 

bilateral and regional trading arrangements should contribute to the goals of the 
multilateral trading system,  

 Stressing the importance of open, transparent, inclusive, democratic and more 
orderly processes and procedures for the effective functioning of the multilateral 
trading system, including in the decision-making process, so as to enable developing 
countries to have their vital interests duly reflected in the outcome of trade 
negotiations,  

 Reiterating that development concerns form an integral part of the Doha 
Development Agenda, which places the needs and interests of developing and least 
developed countries at the heart of the Doha Work Programme,7  

 Noting that agriculture lags behind the manufacturing sector in the process of 
establishment of multilateral disciplines and in the reduction of tariff and non-tariff 
barriers and that, since most of the world’s poor make their living from agriculture, 
the livelihood and standards of living of many of them are seriously jeopardized by 
the serious distortions in production and trade in agricultural products caused by the 
high levels of export subsidies, trade-distorting domestic support and protectionism 
by many developed countries,  

 1. Takes note of the report of the Trade and Development Board as well as 
the report of the Secretary-General;  

 2. Reaffirms that international trade can be an engine for development and 
sustained economic growth, underscores the need to fully harness its potential in 
that regard, and stresses the importance of upholding a universal, rule-based, open, 
non-discriminatory and equitable multilateral trading system that contributes to 
growth, sustainable development and employment, particularly in developing 
countries;  

 3. Notes with deep concern that the world financial and economic crisis has 
severely impacted international trade, particularly affecting developing countries, 
including through the fall in exports and loss of export revenues, restricted access to 
trade finance and reduced export-oriented investment, which have resulted, in many 
cases, in lower fiscal revenues and balance-of-payment problems; 

 4. Notes that the shortage and the high cost of trade finance for developing 
countries contributed significantly to the reduction in trade flows during the crisis, 
also notes the efforts of the international community, including through the World 
Bank Global Trade Liquidity Programme, to ensure additional resources at 
affordable rates, and calls on bilateral and multilateral donors to redouble their 
efforts to increase the availability and affordability of trade finance for developing 
countries;  

 5. Underscores in this regard the need for greater coherence in the trade, 
financial and monetary systems, with a view to promoting growth, sustainable 
development and employment; 

 6. Stresses the need to resist all protectionist measures and tendencies, 
especially those affecting developing countries, particularly tariffs, non-tariff and 
para-tariff barriers to trade, and to rectify any such measures already taken, 
recognizes the right for countries to fully utilize their policy space consistent with 

__________________ 

 7  See A/C.2/56/7, annex. 



 A/C.2/64/L.40
 

3 09-61013 
 

World Trade Organization commitments, and calls on the World Trade Organization 
and other relevant bodies, including the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development, to continue monitoring protectionist measures and assess their impact 
on developing countries;  

 7 Encourages Member States to refrain from adopting any measures or 
restrictions related to trade and transit that affect the access by developing countries 
to medicines, especially generic medicines, and medical equipment;  

 8. Expresses serious concern at the lack of progress in the negotiations of 
the World Trade Organization Doha Round, reiterates the call on developed 
countries to demonstrate the flexibility and political will necessary to make 
meaningful progress in the negotiations, with a view to concluding the Round by 
2010, and calls upon all members of the World Trade Organization to adhere to the 
development mandate of the Doha Ministerial Declaration,7 the decision of 1 August 
2004 of the General Council of the World Trade Organization8 and the Hong Kong 
Ministerial Declaration,9 which places development at the heart of the multilateral 
trading system;  

 9. Takes note of the New Delhi informal ministerial meeting on 
re-energizing Doha held on 3 and 4 September 2009, which led to the resumption of 
the negotiations of the Doha Development Round with the objective of concluding 
the Round by 2010; 

 10. Stresses the importance of accelerating the negotiations, with a strong 
reaffirmation that development remains at the heart of the Doha Round, building 
upon the progress already made, particularly with regard to modalities, and based on 
the World Trade Organization agreed workplan on agriculture, non-agricultural 
market access, services, rules, trade facilitation and other remaining issues, with a 
view to concluding the Round by 2010; 

 11. Also stresses that in order for the Doha Round to be concluded 
satisfactorily, the negotiations should strengthen the rules and disciplines in the area 
of agriculture, eliminate agricultural export subsidies, as well as substantially reduce 
the domestic measures of support by developed countries, and promote enhanced 
market access to developed country markets, in a balanced and development-
oriented outcome, while adhering to the development mandate of the Doha 
Ministerial Declaration, the decision of 1 August 2004 of the General Council of the 
World Trade Organization and the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration;  

 12. Further stresses the need for negotiations of the World Trade 
Organization in non-agricultural market access to fulfil the development mandate of 
the Doha Ministerial Declaration, the decision of 1 August 2004 of the General 
Council of the World Trade Organization and the Hong Kong Ministerial 
Declaration;  

 13. Stresses the need for negotiations of the World Trade Organization to 
make substantial progress in all areas under the single undertaking such as services, 
rules and trade facilitation so as to ensure that the development concerns of 
developing countries are fully reflected in any outcome consistent with the 

__________________ 

 8  World Trade Organization, document WT/L/579. Available from http://docsonline.wto.org. 
 9  World Trade Organization, document WT/MIN(05)/DEC. Available from 

http://docsonline.wto.org. 



A/C.2/64/L.40  
 

09-61013 4 
 

development mandate of the Doha Ministerial Declaration, the decision of 1 August 
2004 of the General Council of the World Trade Organization and the Hong Kong 
Ministerial Declaration;  

 14. Reiterates the call for accelerating the work on the trade-related aspects 
of the World Intellectual Property Organization development agenda, as well as the 
development-related mandate concerning the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of 
Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement)10 in the Doha Ministerial 
Declaration, especially the examination of the relationship between the TRIPS 
Agreement and the Convention on Biological Diversity,11 the protection of 
traditional knowledge and folklore and the issues related to the full implementation 
of the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health,12 affecting 
developing countries, including the least developed countries, especially those 
issues arising from the HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other diseases;  

 15. Reaffirms the commitments made at the Fourth Ministerial Conference of 
the World Trade Organization7 and at the Third United Nations Conference on the 
Least Developed Countries,13 in this regard calls upon developed countries that 
have not already done so to provide immediate predictable, duty-free and quota-free 
market access on a lasting basis to all products originating from all least developed 
countries, also calls upon developing countries that are in a position to do so to 
extend duty-free and quota-free market access to exports of these countries, and in 
this context reaffirms also the need to consider additional measures for progressive 
improvement in market access for least developed countries and reaffirms further 
the need for members of the World Trade Organization to take additional measures 
to provide effective market access both at the border and otherwise, including 
simplified and transparent rules of origin so as to facilitate exports from least 
developed countries;  

 16. Also reaffirms the commitment to actively pursue the work programme of 
the World Trade Organization with respect to addressing the trade-related issues and 
concerns affecting the fuller integration of small, vulnerable economies into the 
multilateral trading system in a manner commensurate with their special 
circumstances and in support of their efforts towards sustainable development, in 
accordance with paragraph 35 of the Doha Ministerial Declaration and paragraph 41 
of the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration;  

 17. Expresses its deep concern at the imposition of laws and other forms of 
coercive economic measures including unilateral sanctions against developing 
countries, which undermine international law and the rules of the World Trade 
Organization and also severely threaten the freedom of trade and investment;  

 18. Recognizes the special problems and needs of the landlocked developing 
countries within a new global framework for transit transport cooperation for 
landlocked and transit developing countries, calls, in this regard, for the full and 

__________________ 

 10  See Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade 
Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT secretariat publication, Sales 
No. GATT/1994-7). 

 11  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619. 
 12  World Trade Organization, document WT/MIN(01)/DEC/2. Available from 

http://docsonline.wto.org. 
 13  See A/CONF.191/13. 



 A/C.2/64/L.40
 

5 09-61013 
 

effective implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action,14 and stresses the 
need for the implementation of the São Paulo Consensus15 and of the Accra 
Accord16 by the relevant international organizations and donors in a multi-
stakeholder approach;  

 19. Reaffirms that developing countries should play an increasing role in the 
formulation of, inter alia, safety, environmental and health standards, calls for the 
full and fair representation of developing countries in the relevant international 
standard-setting organizations, and in this regard also calls for additional financial 
resources and technical capacity-building to ensure the adequate participation of 
developing countries;  

 20. Recognizes that South-South trade should be strengthened, notes that 
enhanced market access between developing countries can play a positive role in 
stimulating South-South trade and calls for acceleration of the work of the ongoing 
(São Paulo) third round of negotiations on the Global System of Trade Preferences 
among Developing Countries;  

 21. Calls for facilitating the accession of all developing countries that apply 
for membership in the World Trade Organization, in particular the least developed 
countries, as well as countries emerging from conflict that are least developed 
countries, bearing in mind paragraph 21 of resolution 55/182 of 20 December 2000 
and subsequent developments, and also calls for the effective and faithful 
application of the World Trade Organization guidelines on accession by the least 
developed countries;  

 22. Emphasizes the need for further work to foster greater coherence between 
the multilateral trading system and the international financial system, and invites the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in fulfilment of its mandate, 
to undertake the relevant policy analysis in those areas and to operationalize such 
work, including through its technical assistance activities;  

 23. Takes note of the holding of the Second Global Review on Aid for Trade, 
on 6 and 7 July 2009, aimed at reviewing progress achieved and identifying 
additional measures needed to support developing and least developed countries in 
building their supply and export capacities, and stresses the urgent need to 
implement the Aid for Trade commitments, especially with regard to the 
mobilization of additional, non-conditional and predictable funding;  

 24. Welcomes the efforts made to operationalize the Enhanced Integrated 
Framework for Trade-related Technical Assistance to Least Developed Countries, 
aimed at promoting the export and supply capacities of the least developed 
countries, as well as the establishment of the Enhanced Integrated Framework Trust 
Fund, and urges the development partners to increase their contributions, with a 
view to ensuring increased additional, non-conditional and predictable financial 
resources on a multi-year basis;  

__________________ 

 14  Report of the International Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and Transit Developing 
Countries and Donor Countries and International Financial and Development Institutions on 
Transit Transport Cooperation, Almaty, Kazakhstan, 28 and 29 August 2003 (A/CONF.202/3), 
annex I. 

 15  TD/412, part II. 
 16  TD/442 and Corr.1, chap. II. 



A/C.2/64/L.40  
 

09-61013 6 
 

 25. Reiterates the important role of the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and Development as the focal point within the United Nations system for the 
integrated treatment of trade and development and interrelated issues in the areas of 
finance, technology, investment and sustainable development, and calls upon the 
international community to work towards the strengthening of the Conference, to 
enable it to enhance its contribution in its three major pillars, namely, consensus-
building, research and policy analysis, and technical assistance, especially through 
increased core resources of the Conference;  

 26. Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in 
accordance with its mandate, to monitor and assess the evolution of the international 
trading system and of trends in international trade from a development perspective, 
and, in particular, to analyse issues of concern to developing countries, supporting 
them in building capacities to establish their own negotiating priorities and 
negotiate trade agreements, including under the Doha Work Programme;7  

 27. Urges donors to provide the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development with the increased resources necessary to deliver effective and 
demand-driven assistance to developing countries, as well as to enhance their 
contributions to the trust funds of the Integrated Framework for Trade-related 
Technical Assistance to Least Developed Countries and the Joint Integrated 
Technical Assistance Programme;  

 28. Requests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the secretariat of 
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to submit to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session a report on the implementation of the present 
resolution and on developments in the multilateral trading system, including with 
regard to the implementation of the World Intellectual Property Organization 
development agenda, under the sub-item entitled “International trade and 
development” of the item entitled “Macroeconomic policy questions”;  

 29. Also requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to 
the Director-General of the World Trade Organization for circulation as a document 
of the World Trade Organization. 

 


