






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/67/L.58

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
13 November 2012 
 
Original: English 

 

12-58807 (E)    151112     
*1258807*   

Sixty-seventh session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 68 
Right of peoples to self-determination 

 
 
 

  Cuba: draft resolution 
 
 

  Use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and 
impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination 
 
 

 The General Assembly,  

 Recalling all of its previous resolutions on the subject, including resolution 
66/147 of 19 December 2011, and Human Rights Council resolutions 15/12 of 
30 September 2010,1 15/26 of 1 October 2010,2 18/4 of 29 September 2011,3 and 
21/8 of 27 September 2012,4 as well as all resolutions adopted by the Commission 
on Human Rights in this regard,  

 Recalling also all of its relevant resolutions in which, inter alia, it condemned 
any State that permitted or tolerated the recruitment, financing, training, assembly, 
transit or use of mercenaries with the objective of overthrowing the Governments of 
States Members of the United Nations, especially those of developing countries, or 
of fighting against national liberation movements, and recalling further the relevant 
resolutions and international instruments adopted by the General Assembly, the 
Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and the Organization of African 
Unity, inter alia, the Organization of African Unity Convention for the elimination 
of mercenarism in Africa,5 as well as by the African Union,  

 Reaffirming the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations concerning the strict observance of the principles of sovereign equality, 
political independence, the territorial integrity of States, the self-determination of 
peoples, the non-use of force or of the threat of use of force in international 
relations and non-interference in affairs within the domestic jurisdiction of States,  

__________________ 

 1  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 53A 
(A/65/53/Add.1), chap. II. 

 2  Ibid., chap. I. 
 3  Ibid., Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 53A and corrigendum (A/66/53/Add.1 and Corr.1), 

chap. II. 
 4  Ibid., Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 53A (A/67/53/Add.1), chap. III. 
 5  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1490, No. 25573. 



A/C.3/67/L.58  
 

12-58807 2 
 

 Reaffirming also that, by virtue of the principle of self-determination, all 
peoples have the right freely to determine their political status and to pursue their 
economic, social and cultural development and that every State has the duty to 
respect this right in accordance with the provisions of the Charter,  

 Reaffirming further the Declaration on Principles of International Law 
concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the 
Charter of the United Nations,6  

 Welcoming the establishment of the open-ended intergovernmental Working 
Group of the Human Rights Council with the mandate of considering the possibility 
of elaborating an international regulatory framework, including the option of 
elaborating a legally binding instrument on the regulation, monitoring and oversight 
of the activities of private military and security companies,  

 Recalling that regional consultations were held in all five regions from 2007 to 
2011, in which participants noted that the enjoyment and exercise of human rights 
were increasingly impeded by the emergence of new challenges and trends relating 
to mercenaries or their activities and to the role played by private military and 
security companies registered, operating or recruiting personnel in each region, and 
expressing its appreciation to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Human Rights for its support for the holding of the consultations, 

 Alarmed and concerned at the danger that the activities of mercenaries 
constitute to peace and security in developing countries, in particular in Africa and 
in small States,  

 Deeply concerned at the loss of life, the substantial damage to property and the 
negative effects on the policy and economies of affected countries resulting from 
criminal mercenary activities,  

 Extremely alarmed and concerned about recent mercenary activities in some 
developing countries in various parts of the world, including in areas of armed 
conflict, and the threat they pose to the integrity of and respect for the constitutional 
order of the affected countries,  

 Concerned at the alleged involvement of mercenaries, as well as employees of 
some private military and security companies with mercenary-related activities, in 
serious human rights violations, including summary executions, enforced 
disappearances, rape, torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, arbitrary 
arrests and detentions, arson, pillaging and looting,  

 Convinced that a comprehensive, legally binding international regulatory 
instrument is important for regulating private military and security companies and, 
in this regard, for taking measures to ensure their accountability for human rights 
violations and monitor their activities,  

 Convinced also that, notwithstanding the way in which they are used or the 
form that they take to acquire some semblance of legitimacy, mercenaries or 
mercenary-related activities are a threat to peace, security and the self-determination 
of peoples and an obstacle to the enjoyment of all human rights by peoples,  

__________________ 

 6  Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex. 



 A/C.3/67/L.58
 

3 12-58807 
 

 1. Acknowledges with appreciation the work and contributions of the 
Working Group on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and 
impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination, including its 
research activities, and takes note with appreciation of its latest report;7  

 2. Reaffirms that the use of mercenaries and their recruitment, financing and 
training are causes for grave concern to all States and violate the purposes and 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations;  

 3. Recognizes that armed conflict, terrorism, arms trafficking and covert 
operations by third Powers, inter alia, encourage the demand for mercenaries on the 
global market;  

 4. Urges once again all States to take the steps necessary and to exercise 
the utmost vigilance against the menace posed by the activities of mercenaries and 
to take legislative measures to ensure that their territories and other territories under 
their control, as well as their nationals, are not used for the recruitment, assembly, 
financing, training, protection or transit of mercenaries for the planning of activities 
designed to impede the right of peoples to self-determination, to destabilize or 
overthrow the Government of any State or to dismember or impair, totally or in part, 
the territorial integrity or political unity of sovereign and independent States 
conducting themselves in compliance with the right of peoples to self-
determination;  

 5. Requests all States to exercise the utmost vigilance against any kind of 
recruitment, training, hiring or financing of mercenaries by private companies 
offering international military consultancy and security services, as well as to 
impose a specific ban on such companies intervening in armed conflicts or actions 
to destabilize constitutional regimes;  

 6. Encourages States that import the military assistance, consultancy and 
security services provided by private companies to establish regulatory national 
mechanisms for the registering and licensing of those companies in order to ensure 
that imported services provided by those private companies neither impede the 
enjoyment of human rights nor violate human rights in the recipient country;  

 7. Emphasizes its utmost concern about the impact of the activities of 
private military and security companies on the enjoyment of human rights, in 
particular when operating in armed conflicts, and notes that private military and 
security companies and their personnel are rarely held accountable for violations of 
human rights;  

 8. Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to consider taking the 
action necessary to accede to or ratify the International Convention against the 
Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries;8  

 9. Welcomes the cooperation extended by those countries that received a 
visit by the Working Group and the adoption by some States of national legislation 
that restricts the recruitment, assembly, financing, training and transit of 
mercenaries;  

__________________ 

 7  See A/67/340. 
 8  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2163, No. 37789. 



A/C.3/67/L.58  
 

12-58807 4 
 

 10. Condemns recent mercenary activities in developing countries in various 
parts of the world, in particular in areas of conflict, and the threat they pose to the 
integrity of and respect for the constitutional order of those countries and the 
exercise of the right of their peoples to self-determination, and stresses the 
importance for the Working Group of looking into sources and root causes, as well 
as the political motivations of mercenaries and for mercenary-related activities;  

 11. Calls upon States to investigate the possibility of mercenary involvement 
whenever and wherever criminal acts of a terrorist nature occur and to bring to trial 
those found responsible or to consider their extradition, if so requested, in 
accordance with domestic law and applicable bilateral or international treaties;  

 12. Condemns any form of impunity granted to perpetrators of mercenary 
activities and to those responsible for the use, recruitment, financing and training of 
mercenaries, and urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under 
international law, to bring them, without distinction, to justice;  

 13. Calls upon Member States, in accordance with their obligations under 
international law, to cooperate with and assist the judicial prosecution of those 
accused of mercenary activities in transparent, open and fair trials;  

 14. Welcomes the holding of the second session of the open-ended 
intergovernmental Working Group to consider the possibility of elaborating an 
international regulatory framework on the regulation, monitoring and oversight of 
the activities of private military and security companies, and expresses satisfaction 
at the participation of experts, including the members of the Working Group on the 
use of mercenaries, as resource persons at the above-mentioned session;  

 15. Requests the Working Group on the use of mercenaries to continue the 
work already done by previous Special Rapporteurs on the strengthening of the 
international legal framework for the prevention and sanction of the recruitment, 
use, financing and training of mercenaries, taking into account the proposal for a 
new legal definition of a mercenary drafted by the Special Rapporteur on the use of 
mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the 
right of peoples to self-determination in his report to the Commission on Human 
Rights at its sixtieth session;9 

 16. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights, as a matter of priority, to publicize the adverse effects of the 
activities of mercenaries on the right of peoples to self-determination and, when 
requested and where necessary, to render advisory services to States that are affected 
by those activities;  

 17. Recommends that all Member States, including those confronted with the 
phenomenon of private military and security companies, as contracting States, States 
of operations, home States or States whose nationals are employed to work for a 
private military and security company, to contribute to the work of the open-ended 
intergovernmental Working Group, taking into account the initial work done by the 
Working Group on the use of mercenaries;  

 18. Urges all States to cooperate fully with the Working Group on the use of 
mercenaries in the fulfilment of its mandate;  

__________________ 

 9  See E/CN.4/2004/15, para. 47. 



 A/C.3/67/L.58
 

5 12-58807 
 

 19. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to continue to provide the Working Group with all 
the assistance and support necessary for the fulfilment of its mandate, both 
professional and financial, including through the promotion of cooperation between 
the Working Group and other components of the United Nations system that deal 
with countering mercenary-related activities, in order to meet the demands of its 
current and future activities;  

 20. Requests the Working Group to consult States and intergovernmental and 
non-governmental organizations in the implementation of the present resolution and 
to report, with specific recommendations, to the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth session its findings on the use of mercenaries to undermine the enjoyment of 
all human rights and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to self-
determination;  

 21. Decides to consider at its sixty-eighth session the question of the use of 
mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the 
right of peoples to self-determination under the item entitled “Right of peoples to 
self-determination”.  

 


