











































Microsoft Word - 0462048e.doc


United Nations A/C.4/59/L.12/Rev.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
22 November 2004

Original: English

04-62048 (E)    221104

*0462048*

Fifty-ninth session
Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee)
Agenda item 75
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East

Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt,
Guinea, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Morocco, Namibia,
Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Tunisia, United Arab
Emirates, Yemen and Palestine: revised draft resolution

Operations of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 194 (III) of 11 December 1948, 212 (III) of
19 November 1948, 302 (IV) of 8 December 1949 and all subsequent related
resolutions, including resolution 58/93 of 9 December 2003,

Recalling also relevant Security Council resolutions,

Having considered the report of the Commissioner-General of the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East covering
the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004,1

Taking note of the letter dated 30 September 2004 from the Chairperson of the
Advisory Commission of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East addressed to the Commissioner-General,2

Deeply concerned about the continuing critical financial situation of the
Agency and its effect on the continuing provision of necessary Agency services to
the Palestine refugees, including its emergency-related and development
programmes,

__________________
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/59/13).
2 Ibid., p. viii.



2

A/C.4/59/L.12/Rev.1

Recalling Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United Nations and
the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations,3

Recalling also the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated
Personnel,4

Affirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection
of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,5 to the Palestinian territory
occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem,

Aware of the continuing needs of the Palestine refugees throughout the
Occupied Palestinian Territory and in the other fields of operation, namely in
Jordan, Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic,

Gravely concerned about the increased suffering of the Palestine refugees,
including that resulting from loss of life, injury and extensive destruction and
damage to their shelters and properties, during the ongoing crisis in the Occupied
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,

Expressing grave concern about the grave impact of the events that occurred in
the Jenin refugee camp in April 2002, the Rafah refugee camp in May 2004 and the
Jabaliya refugee camp in October 2004, including the loss of life, injury, destruction
and displacement inflicted on many of the civilian inhabitants,

Aware of the extraordinary efforts being undertaken by the Agency for the
repair or rebuilding of thousands of destroyed and damaged refugee shelters,

Aware also of the valuable work done by the refugee affairs officers of the
Agency in providing protection to the Palestinian people, in particular Palestine
refugees,

Gravely concerned about the endangerment of the safety of the Agency’s staff
and about the damage caused to its facilities as a result of Israeli military operations
during the reporting period,

Deploring the killing of twelve Agency staff members by the Israeli occupying
forces since September 2000,

Deploring also the killing and wounding of children in the Agency’s schools
by the Israeli occupying forces,

Expressing deep concern about the continuing policies of closure and severe
restrictions, including the curfews, that have been imposed on the movement of
persons and goods throughout the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East
Jerusalem, and which have had a grave impact on the socio-economic situation of
the Palestine refugees and have greatly contributed to the dire humanitarian crisis
facing the Palestinian people,

Deeply concerned about the continuing imposition of restrictions on the
freedom of movement of the Agency’s staff, vehicles and goods, the harassment and
intimidation of its staff and the serious accusations made against the Agency, which
proved to be unfounded, all of which undermine and obstruct its work, including its

__________________
3 Resolution 22 A (I).
4 Resolution 49/59, annex.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.



3

A/C.4/59/L.12/Rev.1

ability to provide its essential services, notably its education, health and relief and
social services,

Recalling the signing, on 13 September 1993, of the Declaration of Principles
on Interim Self-Government Arrangements by the Government of Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization6 and the subsequent implementation agreements,

Aware of the agreement between the Agency and the Government of Israel,

Taking note of the agreement reached on 24 June 1994, embodied in an
exchange of letters between the Agency and the Palestine Liberation Organization,7

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Commissioner-General of the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, as well
as to all of the staff of the Agency, for their tireless efforts and valuable work,
particularly in light of the increasingly difficult conditions during the past year;

2. Also expresses its appreciation to the Advisory Commission of the
Agency, and requests it to continue its efforts and to keep the General Assembly
informed of its activities, including the full implementation of decision 48/417;

3. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Working Group on the
Financing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in
the Near East8 and its efforts to assist in ensuring the financial security of the
Agency, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary services and
assistance to the Working Group for the conduct of its work;

4. Commends the continuing efforts of the Commissioner-General to
increase the budgetary transparency and efficiency of the Agency, as reflected in the
Agency’s programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005;9

5. Acknowledges the support provided by the host Governments to the
Agency in the discharge of its duties;

6. Welcomes the convening, on 7 and 8 June 2004, of the Geneva
conference by the Agency and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
to increase support for the Agency;

7. Expresses concern about the temporary relocation of the headquarters
international staff of the Agency from Gaza City and the disruption of operations at
the headquarters;

8. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply fully with the
provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949;5

9. Also calls upon Israel to abide by Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the
Charter of the United Nations and the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities
of the United Nations3 in order to ensure the safety of the personnel of the Agency,

__________________
6 A/48/486-S/26560, annex.
7 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/49/13),

annex I.
8 A/59/442.
9 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 13, addendum

(A/58/13/Add.1).



4

A/C.4/59/L.12/Rev.1

the protection of its institutions and the safeguarding of the security of its facilities
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem;

10. Urges the Government of Israel speedily to compensate the Agency for
damage to its property and facilities resulting from actions by the Israeli side,
particularly during the reporting period;

11. Calls upon Israel particularly to cease obstructing the movement of the
staff, vehicles and supplies of the Agency and to cease the levying of extra fees and
charges, which affect detrimentally the Agency’s operations;

12. Requests the Commissioner-General to proceed with the issuance of
identification cards for Palestine refugees and their descendants in the Occupied
Palestinian Territory;

13. Affirms that the functioning of the Agency remains essential in all fields
of operation;

14. Notes the success of the Agency’s microfinance and microenterprise
programmes, and calls upon the Agency, in close cooperation with the relevant
agencies, to continue to contribute to the development of the economic and social
stability of the Palestine refugees in all fields of operation;

15. Reiterates its request to the Commissioner-General to proceed with the
modernization of the archives of the Agency through the Palestine Refugee Records
Project, and to indicate the progress made in this regard in his report to the General
Assembly at its sixtieth session;

16. Reiterates its previous appeals to all States, specialized agencies and
non-governmental organizations to continue and to augment the special allocations
for grants and scholarships for higher education to Palestine refugees in addition to
their contributions to the regular budget of the Agency and to contribute to the
establishment of vocational training centres for Palestine refugees, and requests the
Agency to act as the recipient and trustee for the special allocations for grants and
scholarships;

17. Urges all States, specialized agencies and non-governmental
organizations to continue and to increase their contributions to the Agency so as to
ease the ongoing financial constraints, exacerbated by the current humanitarian
situation on the ground, and to support the Agency’s valuable work in assisting the
Palestine refugees.


