






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.1/62/L.19/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
29 October 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-56816 (E)    291007     
*0756816* 

Sixty-second session 
First Committee 
Agenda item 98 
General and complete disarmament 

 
 
 

  Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 
Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam: revised 
draft resolution 
 
 

  Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone 
(Bangkok Treaty) 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 60/56 of 8 December 2005, entitled “Towards a 
nuclear-weapon-free world: accelerating the implementation of nuclear disarmament 
commitments”, and its resolution 61/69 of 6 December 2006, entitled “Nuclear-
weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas”, 

 Welcoming the desire of the South-East Asian States to maintain peace and 
stability in the region in the spirit of peaceful coexistence and mutual understanding 
and cooperation, 

 Reaffirming its conviction of the important role of nuclear-weapon-free zones 
in strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime and in extending the areas of 
the world that are nuclear-weapon-free, and, with particular reference to the 
responsibilities of the nuclear-weapon States, calling upon all States to support the 
process of nuclear disarmament and to work for the total elimination of all nuclear 
weapons, 

 Convinced that the establishment of a South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free 
Zone, as an essential component of the Declaration on the Zone of Peace, Freedom 
and Neutrality, signed in Kuala Lumpur on 27 November 1971, will contribute 
towards strengthening the security of States within the Zone and towards enhancing 
international peace and security as a whole,  



A/C.1/62/L.19/Rev.1  
 

07-56816 2 
 

 Noting the entry into force of the Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone1 on 28 March 1997 and the tenth anniversary of its entry into 
force in 2007, 

 Welcoming the reaffirmation of South-East Asian States that the South-East 
Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone shall continue to play a pivotal role in the area of 
confidence-building measures, preventive diplomacy and the approaches to conflict 
resolution as enshrined in Declaration of Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
Concord II (Bali Concord II),2 

 Reaffirming the inalienable right of all the parties to the Treaty on the South-
East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone to develop research, production and use of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes without discrimination and in conformity with 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,3 

 Recognizing that by signing and ratifying the relevant protocols to the treaties 
establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones, nuclear-weapon States undertake legally 
binding commitments to respect the status of such zones and not to use or threaten 
to use nuclear weapons against States parties to such treaties, 

 Recalling the applicable principles and rules of international law relating to the 
freedom of the high seas and the rights of innocent passage, archipelagic sea lanes 
passage or transit passage of ships and aircraft, particularly those of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,4 

 1. Welcomes the commitment of the Commission for the Treaty on the 
South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone to further enhance and strengthen the 
implementation of the Bangkok Treaty by adopting a Plan of Action for the period 
2007-2012 in Manila on 29 July 2007; 

 2. Encourages States parties to the Treaty to work towards resuming direct 
consultations with the five nuclear-weapon States to resolve comprehensively, in 
accordance with the objectives and principles of the Treaty, existing outstanding 
issues on a number of provisions of the Treaty and its Protocol; 

 3. Also encourages nuclear-weapon States and States parties to the Treaty to 
continue to work constructively with a view to ensuring the early accession of the 
nuclear-weapon States to the Protocol to the Treaty; 

 4. Underlines the value of enhancing and implementing further ways and 
means of cooperation among nuclear-weapon-free zones; 

 5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fourth session 
the item entitled “Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone 
(Bangkok Treaty)”. 

 

__________________ 

 1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1981, No. 33873. 
 2  A/58/548, annex I. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485. 
 4  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1835, No. 31363. 


