






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/62/L.50

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
2 November 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-58065 (E)    061107  
*0758065* 

Sixty-second session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 70 (b) 
Promotion and protection of human rights: human rights  
questions, including alternative approaches for improving the  
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms  

 
 
 

  Cuba:* draft resolution 
 
 

  Human rights and unilateral coercive measures 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling all its previous resolutions on this subject, the most recent of which 
was resolution 61/170 of 19 December 2006, resolution 6/7 of the Human Rights 
Council of 28 September 20071 and previous resolutions of the Commission on 
Human Rights, 

 Reaffirming the pertinent principles and provisions contained in the Charter of 
Economic Rights and Duties of States proclaimed by the General Assembly in its 
resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, in particular article 32 thereof, in 
which it declared that no State may use or encourage the use of economic, political 
or any other type of measures to coerce another State in order to obtain from it the 
subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights, 

 Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,2 submitted pursuant to 
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1999/21 of 23 April 1999,3 and the reports 
of the Secretary-General on the implementation of resolutions 52/120 of 
12 December 19974 and 55/110 of 4 December 2000,5 

__________________ 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Movement of 
Non-aligned countries. 

 1  See A/HRC/6/L.11 (to be issued in final form as Official Records of the General Assembly, 
Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/62/53)), chap. I, sect. A. 

 2  A/62/255. 
 3  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1999, Supplement No. 3 (E/1999/23), 

chap. II, sect. A. 
 4  A/53/293 and Add.1. 
 5  A/56/207 and Add.1. 



A/C.3/62/L.50  
 

07-58065 2 
 

 Stressing that unilateral coercive measures and legislation are contrary to 
international law, international humanitarian law, the Charter of the United Nations 
and the norms and principles governing peaceful relations among States,  

 Recognizing the universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated 
character of all human rights, and, in this regard, reaffirming the right to 
development as an integral part of all human rights, 

 Recalling the Final Document of the Fourteenth Conference of Heads of State 
or Government of the Non-Aligned Movement, held in Havana from 11 to 
16 September 2006,6 in which they agreed to oppose and condemn these measures 
or laws and their continued application, persevere with efforts to effectively reverse 
them and urge other States to do likewise, as called for by the General Assembly and 
other United Nations organs, and to request States applying these measures or laws 
to revoke them fully and immediately,  

 Recalling that the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 
to 25 June 1993, called upon States to refrain from any unilateral coercive measure 
not in accordance with international law and the Charter of the United Nations that 
creates obstacles to trade relations among States and impedes the full realization of 
all human rights,7 and also severely threatens the freedom of trade, 

 Bearing in mind all the references to this question in the Copenhagen 
Declaration on Social Development adopted by the World Summit for Social 
Development on 12 March 1995,8 the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action 
adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995,9 the 
Istanbul Declaration on Human Settlements and the Habitat Agenda adopted by the 
second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) on 14 June 
1996,10 and their five-year reviews, 

 Expressing its concern about the negative impact of unilateral coercive 
measures on international relations, trade, investment and cooperation, 

 Expressing its grave concern that, in some countries, the situation of children 
is adversely affected by unilateral coercive measures not in accordance with 
international law and the Charter that create obstacles to trade relations among 
States, impede the full realization of social and economic development and hinder 
the well-being of the population in the affected countries, with particular 
consequences for women and children, including adolescents, 

 Deeply concerned that, despite the recommendations adopted on this question 
by the General Assembly, the Human Rights Council, the former Commission on 
Human Rights and recent major United Nations conferences, and contrary to general 
international law and the Charter, unilateral coercive measures continue to be 
promulgated and implemented with all their negative implications for the social-
humanitarian activities and economic and social development of developing 

__________________ 

 6  A/61/472-S/2006/780, annex I. 
 7  See A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. I, para. 31. 
 8  Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6–12 March 1995 (United 

Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I. 
 9  Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4–15 September 1995 (United 

Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II. 
 10  Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 

1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II. 



 A/C.3/62/L.50
 

3 07-58065 
 

countries, including their extraterritorial effects, thereby creating additional 
obstacles to the full enjoyment of all human rights by peoples and individuals under 
the jurisdiction of other States, 

 Bearing in mind all the extraterritorial effects of any unilateral legislative, 
administrative and economic measures, policies and practices of a coercive nature 
against the development process and the enhancement of human rights in 
developing countries, which create obstacles to the full realization of all human 
rights, 

 Reaffirming that unilateral coercive measures are a major obstacle to the 
implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development,11 

 Recalling article 1, paragraph 2, common to the International Covenant on 
Civil and Political Rights12 and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights12 which provides, inter alia, that in no case may a people be 
deprived of its own means of subsistence,  

 Noting the continuing efforts of the open-ended Working Group on the Right 
to Development of the Commission on Human Rights, and reaffirming in particular 
its criteria, according to which unilateral coercive measures are one of the obstacles 
to the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development,  

 1. Urges all States to stop adopting or implementing any unilateral 
measures not in accordance with international law and the Charter of the United 
Nations and the norms and principles governing peaceful relations among States, in 
particular those of a coercive nature with all their extraterritorial effects, which 
create obstacles to trade relations among States, thus impeding the full realization of 
the rights set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights13 and other 
international human rights instruments, in particular the right of individuals and 
peoples to development;  

 2. Also urges all States not to adopt any unilateral measures not in 
accordance with international law and the Charter that impede the full achievement 
of economic and social development by the population of the affected countries, in 
particular children and women, that hinder their well-being and that create obstacles 
to the full enjoyment of their human rights, including the right of everyone to a 
standard of living adequate for his or her health and well-being and his or her right 
to food, medical care and the necessary social services, as well as to ensure that 
food and medicine are not used as tools for political pressure; 

 3. Strongly objects to the extraterritorial nature of those measures which, in 
addition, threaten the sovereignty of States and, in this context, calls upon all 
Member States neither to recognize these measures nor apply them, as well as to 
take administrative or legislative measures, as appropriate, to counteract the 
extraterritorial applications or effects of unilateral coercive measures;  

 4. Condemns the continued unilateral application and enforcement by 
certain Powers of unilateral coercive measures and rejects these measures with all 
their extraterritorial effects as being tools for political or economic pressure against 
any country, in particular against developing countries, adopted with a view to 

__________________ 

 11  Resolution 41/128, annex. 
 12  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 13  Resolution 217 A (III). 



A/C.3/62/L.50  
 

07-58065 4 
 

preventing these countries from exercising their right to decide, of their own free 
will, their own political, economic and social systems, and because of the negative 
effects of these measures on the realization of all the human rights of vast sectors of 
their populations, in particular children, women and the elderly; 

 5. Reaffirms that essential goods such as food and medicines should not be 
used as tools for political coercion and that under no circumstances should people 
be deprived of their own means of subsistence and development;  

 6. Calls upon Member States that have initiated such measures to abide by 
the principles of international law, the Charter of the United Nations, the 
declarations of the United Nations and world conferences and relevant resolutions 
and to commit themselves to their obligations and responsibilities arising from the 
international human rights instruments to which they are party by revoking such 
measures at the earliest possible time; 

 7. Reaffirms, in this context, the right of all peoples to self-determination, 
by virtue of which they freely determine their political status and freely pursue their 
economic, social and cultural development; 

 8. Recalls that, according to the Declaration on Principles of International 
Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations, contained in the annex to General Assembly 
resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, and according to the relevant principles 
and provisions contained in the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States 
proclaimed by the Assembly in its resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, in 
particular article 32, no State may use or encourage the use of economic, political or 
any other type of measures to coerce another State in order to obtain from it the 
subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights and to secure from it advantages 
of any kind;  

 9. Rejects all attempts to introduce unilateral coercive measures and urges 
the Human Rights Council to take fully into account the negative impact of these 
measures, including through the enactment of national laws and their extraterritorial 
application which are not in conformity with international law, in its task concerning 
the implementation of the right to development; 

 10. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in 
discharging her functions relating to the promotion, realization and protection of the 
right to development and bearing in mind the continuing impact of unilateral 
coercive measures on the population of developing countries, to give priority to the 
present resolution in her annual report to the General Assembly; 

 11. Underlines that unilateral coercive measures are one of the major 
obstacles to the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development11 
and, in this regard, calls upon all States to avoid the unilateral imposition of 
economic coercive measures and the extraterritorial application of domestic laws 
which run counter to the principles of free trade and hamper the development of 
developing countries, as recognized by the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on 
the Right to Development;  

 12. Recognizes that the Declaration of Principles adopted at the first phase of 
the World Summit on the Information Society, held in Geneva from 10 to 



 A/C.3/62/L.50
 

5 07-58065 
 

12 December 2003,14 strongly urged States to avoid and refrain from any unilateral 
measure in building the information society;  

 13. Supports the invitation of the Human Rights Council to all special 
rapporteurs and existing thematic mechanisms of the Council in the field of 
economic, social and cultural rights to pay due attention, within the scope of their 
respective mandates, to the negative impact and consequences of unilateral coercive 
measures;  

 14. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the 
attention of all Member States, to continue to collect their views and information on 
the implications and negative effects of unilateral coercive measures on their 
populations and to submit an analytical report thereon to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-third session, while reiterating once again the need to highlight the practical 
and preventive measures in this respect; 

 15. Decides to examine the question on a priority basis at its sixty-third 
session under the sub-item entitled “Human rights questions, including alternative 
approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms”. 

 

__________________ 

 14  A/C.2/59/3, annex, chap. I, sect. A. 


