






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.1/64/L.23

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
15 October 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-56039 (E)    191009     
*0956039*   

Sixty-fourth session 
First Committee 
Agenda item 96 (c) 
General and complete disarmament: Treaty on 
the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone 
(Bangkok Treaty) 

 
 
 

  Thailand:* draft resolution 
 
 

  Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone 
(Bangkok Treaty) 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 62/31 of 5 December 2007, entitled “Treaty on the 
South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone (Bangkok Treaty)”, 

 Welcoming the desire of the South-East Asian States to maintain peace and 
stability in the region in the spirit of peaceful coexistence and mutual understanding 
and cooperation, 

 Noting the entry into force of the Charter of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations on 15 December 2008, which, among other things, states that one of the 
purposes of the Association is to preserve South-East Asia as a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone and free of all other weapons of mass destruction, 

 Noting also the convening of the second Conference of States Parties and 
Signatories of Treaties that Establish Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones and Mongolia,  

 Reaffirming its conviction of the important role of nuclear-weapon-free zones 
in strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime and in extending the areas of 
the world that are nuclear-weapon-free, and, with particular reference to the 
responsibilities of the nuclear-weapon States, calling upon all States to support the 
process of nuclear disarmament and to work for the total elimination of all nuclear 
weapons,  

 Convinced that the establishment of a South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free 
Zone, as an essential component of the Declaration on the Zone of Peace, Freedom 

 
 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the States parties to the Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone (Bangkok Treaty). 



A/C.1/64/L.23  
 

09-56039 2 
 

and Neutrality, signed in Kuala Lumpur on 27 November 1971, will contribute 
towards strengthening the security of States within the Zone and towards enhancing 
international peace and security as a whole,  

 Noting the entry into force of the Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone on 27 March 19971 and the tenth anniversary of its entry into 
force in 2007, 

 Welcoming the reaffirmation of South-East Asian States that the South-East 
Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone shall continue to play a pivotal role in the area of 
confidence-building measures, preventive diplomacy and the approaches to conflict 
resolution as enshrined in the Declaration of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations Concord II (Bali Concord II),2 

 Reaffirming the inalienable right of all the parties to the Treaty on the South-
East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone to develop research, production and use of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes without discrimination and in conformity with 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,3 

 Recognizing that by signing and ratifying the relevant protocols to the treaties 
establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones, nuclear-weapon States undertake legally 
binding commitments to respect the status of such zones and not to use or threaten 
to use nuclear weapons against States parties to such treaties,  

 Recalling the applicable principles and rules of international law relating to the 
freedom of the high seas and the rights of innocent passage, archipelagic sea lanes 
passage or transit passage of ships and aircraft, particularly those of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,4 

 1. Welcomes the commitment and efforts of the Commission for the Treaty 
on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone to further enhance and 
strengthen the implementation of the Bangkok Treaty1 by implementing the Plan of 
Action for the period 2007-2012, adopted in Manila on 29 July 2007, and the recent 
decision of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Political-Security 
Community Council established under the Charter of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations to give priority to implementation of the Plan of Action; 

 2. Encourages States parties to the Treaty to resume direct consultations 
with the five nuclear-weapon States to resolve comprehensively, in accordance with 
the objectives and principles of the Treaty, existing outstanding issues on a number 
of provisions of the Treaty and the Protocol thereto;  

 3. Encourages nuclear-weapon States and States parties to the Treaty to 
work constructively with a view to ensuring the early accession of the nuclear-
weapon States to the Protocol to the Treaty;  

 4. Underlines the value of enhancing and implementing further ways and 
means of cooperation among nuclear-weapon-free zones;  

__________________ 

 1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1981, No. 33873. 
 2  A/58/548, annex I. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485. 
 4  Ibid., vol. 1833, No. 31363. 



 A/C.1/64/L.23
 

3 09-56039 
 

 5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-sixth session an 
item entitled “Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone (Bangkok 
Treaty)”. 

 


