






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.2/61/L.23/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
20 November 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-62282 (E)    211106     
*0662282* 

Sixty-first session 
Second Committee 
Agenda item 53 (a) 
Sustainable development: implementation of Agenda 21,  
the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21  
and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development 

 
 
 

  South Africa:* revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Oil slick on Lebanese shores 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Reaffirming the outcome of the United Nations Conference on the Human 
Environment, held in Stockholm from 5 to 16 June 1972, especially principle 7,1 
which requested States to take all possible steps to prevent pollution of the seas, 

 Emphasizing the need to protect and preserve the marine environment in 
accordance with international law,  

 Taking into account the 1992 Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development,2 especially principle 16, which stipulates that the polluter should, in 
principle, bear the cost of pollution, and taking also into account chapter 17 of 
Agenda 21,3 

 Noting with great concern the environmental disaster caused by the destruction 
by the Israeli Air Force on 15 July 2006 of the oil storage tanks in the direct vicinity 
of the El-Jiyeh electric power plant in Lebanon, causing an oil slick that covered the 
entirety of the Lebanese coastline and extended beyond, 

 Noting with appreciation the assistance offered by donor countries and 
international organizations for the early recovery and reconstruction of Lebanon 
through bilateral and multilateral channels, including the Stockholm donor 
Conference for Lebanon’s Early Recovery, held on 31 August 2006, 

__________________ 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and 
China. 

 1  See Report of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, Stockholm, 5-16 June 
1972 (A/CONF.48/14/Rev.1), part one, chap. I. 

 2  Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, 
Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I. 

 3  Ibid., annex II. 



A/C.2/61/L.23/Rev.1  
 

06-62282 2 
 

 1. Expresses its deep concern over the adverse implications of the 
destruction by the Israeli Air Force of the oil storage tanks in the direct vicinity of 
the Lebanese El-Jiyeh electric power plant for the achievement of sustainable 
development in Lebanon; 

 2. Considers that the oil slick has heavily polluted the shores of Lebanon 
and consequently has serious implications for human health, biodiversity, fisheries 
and tourism, all four of which in turn have serious implications for livelihoods and 
the economy of Lebanon; 

 3. Calls upon the Government of Israel to assume responsibility for prompt 
and adequate compensation to the Government of Lebanon for the costs of repairing 
the environmental damage caused by the destruction, including the restoration of the 
marine environment; 

 4. Encourages Member States, regional and international organizations, 
regional and international financial institutions, and non-governmental organizations 
and the private sector to provide financial and technical assistance to the 
Government of Lebanon in supporting its efforts to clean up the polluted shores and 
sea of Lebanon with a view to preserving its ecosystem; 

 5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-second session a report on the implementation of the present resolution under 
the item entitled “Sustainable development”. 

 


