






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.2/67/L.15/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
12 December 2012 
 
Original: English 

 

12-64623 (E)    121212     
*1264623*   

Sixty-seventh session 
Second Committee 
Agenda item 22 (b) 
Globalization and interdependence: international migration 
and development 

 
 
 

  Algeria:* revised draft resolution 
 
 

  International migration and development  
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 58/208 of 23 December 2003, 59/241 of 22 December 
2004, 60/227 of 23 December 2005, 61/208 of 20 December 2006, 63/225 of 
19 December 2008 and 65/170 of 20 December 2010 on international migration and 
development, as well as its resolution 60/206 of 22 December 2005 on the 
facilitation and reduction of the cost of transfer of migrant remittances, its 
resolutions 62/156 of 18 December 2007 and 66/172 of 19 December 2011 on the 
protection of migrants and its resolution 62/270 of 20 June 2008 on the Global 
Forum on Migration and Development, and recalling also Commission on 
Population and Development resolution 2006/2 of 10 May 2006,1  

 Recalling also the 2005 World Summit Outcome,2 its resolution 60/265 of 
30 June 2006 on the follow-up to the development outcome of the 2005 World 
Summit, including the Millennium Development Goals and the other internationally 
agreed development goals, and recalling further the high-level plenary meeting of 
the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals and its outcome 
document,3  

 Recalling further its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and 
coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields,  

__________________ 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and 
China. 

 1  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2006, Supplement No. 5 (E/2006/25), 
chap. I, sect. B. 

 2  Resolution 60/1. 
 3  Resolution 65/1. 



A/C.2/67/L.15/Rev.1  
 

12-64623 2 
 

 Recalling the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012, and its outcome document, entitled 
“The future we want”,4  

 Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,5 and recalling the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,6 the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,7 the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,7 the Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women8 and the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child,9  

 Recalling the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All 
Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,10 and reiterating the call to 
Member States that have not yet done so to consider signing and ratifying or 
acceding to the Convention,  

 Recalling also the importance of the Decent Work Agenda of the International 
Labour Organization, including for migrant workers, the eight fundamental 
Conventions of that Organization and the Global Jobs Pact adopted by the 
International Labour Conference at its ninety-eighth session, as a general framework 
within which each country can formulate policy packages specific to its situation 
and national priorities in order to promote a job-intensive recovery and sustainable 
development,  

 Recalling the summary by the President of the General Assembly of the 2006 
high-level dialogue on international migration and development,11 and taking note 
of the summary by the President of the Assembly on the informal thematic debate on 
international migration and development held on 19 May 2011,  

 Acknowledging that the 2006 high-level dialogue provided a useful 
opportunity to address constructively the issue of international migration and 
development and heightened awareness of the issue,  

 Acknowledging also the contribution of the informal thematic debate, held in 
2011, to the discussions on international migration and development,  

 Recognizing the contribution of the Global Forum on Migration and 
Development to addressing the multidimensional nature of international migration 
and promoting balanced and comprehensive approaches,  

 Acknowledging the important and complex interrelationship between 
international migration and development and the need to deal with the challenges 
and opportunities that migration presents to countries of origin, transit and 
destination, recognizing that migration brings benefits and challenges to the global 
community, and confirming the importance of including the matter in relevant 

__________________ 

 4  Resolution 66/288, annex. 
 5  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 6  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 7  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464. 
 8  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 
 9  Ibid., vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 10  Ibid., vol. 2220, No. 39481. 
 11  A/61/515. 



 A/C.2/67/L.15/Rev.1
 

3 12-64623 
 

debates and discussions held at the international level, including at the United 
Nations, in relation to development,  

 1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;12  

 2. Decides to hold a two-day high-level dialogue on international migration 
and development on 3 and 4 October 2013, after the general debate of the 
sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly, at United Nations Headquarters; 

 3. Also decides that the organizational arrangements for the high-level 
dialogue shall be as follows: 

 (a) The overall theme of the high-level dialogue on international migration 
and development will be “Identifying concrete measures to strengthen coherence 
and cooperation at all levels, with a view to enhancing the benefits of international 
migration for migrants and countries alike and its important links to development, 
while reducing its negative implications”;  

 (b) The high-level dialogue will consist of four plenary meetings and four 
interactive multi-stakeholder round tables:  

 (i) Round tables 1 and 2 will be held in the morning and afternoon of the 
first day of the high-level dialogue;  

 (ii) Round tables 3 and 4 will be held in the morning and afternoon of the 
second day of the high-level dialogue;  

 (iii) Summaries of the deliberations of the four round-table sessions will be 
presented orally by the Chairs of the round-table sessions during the 
concluding plenary meeting of the high-level dialogue;  

 (c) The themes for each of the four round tables will be as follows: 

 (i) Round table 1 will focus on assessing the effects of international 
migration on sustainable development and identifying relevant priorities in 
view of the preparation of the post-2015 development framework;  

 (ii) Round table 2 will focus on measures to ensure respect for and protection 
of the human rights of all migrants, with particular reference to women and 
children, as well as to prevent and combat the smuggling of migrants and 
trafficking in persons and to ensure orderly, regular and safe migration;  

 (iii) Round table 3 will focus on strengthening partnerships and cooperation 
on international migration, mechanisms to effectively integrate migration into 
development policies and promoting coherence at all levels;  

 (iv) Round table 4 will focus on international and regional labour mobility 
and its impact on development;  

 (d) Each of the four round tables will be co-chaired by two representatives, 
to be appointed by the President of the General Assembly, with due regard for 
geographical balance, in consultation with regional groups;  

 4. Further decides that the participants in the high-level dialogue will 
participate in accordance with the rules of procedure of the General Assembly;  

__________________ 

 12  A/67/254. 



A/C.2/67/L.15/Rev.1  
 

12-64623 4 
 

 5. Invites Member States and observers to participate in the high-level 
dialogue at the highest possible level;  

 6. Invites the Holy See, in its capacity as observer State, Palestine, in its 
capacity as observer State, and the European Union, in its capacity as observer, to 
participate in the high-level dialogue and its preparatory process;  

 7. Invites all relevant entities of the United Nations system and relevant 
special rapporteurs and representatives, as well as the International Organization for 
Migration and other relevant international organizations, having received a standing 
invitation to participate as observers in the work of the General Assembly, to 
contribute to the preparation of and to participate in the high-level dialogue; 

 8. Invites the President of the General Assembly to draw up a list of 
representatives of other relevant intergovernmental organizations and entities who 
may participate in the high-level dialogue, taking into account the principle of 
equitable geographical representation, and to submit the proposed list to Member 
States for their consideration in accordance with past practice;  

 9. Also invites the President of the General Assembly to draw up a list of 
representatives of non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the 
Economic and Social Council who may participate in the high-level dialogue and 
the one-day informal interactive hearings;  

 10. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a note on the organization of 
work of the high-level dialogue;  

 11. Decides to hold one-day informal interactive hearings in 2013 with 
representatives of non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations and 
the private sector to be organized and presided over by the President of the General 
Assembly, and requests the President of the Assembly to prepare a summary of the 
hearings prior to the high-level dialogue in September 2013;  

 12. Requests the President of the General Assembly, in consultation with 
Member States, to draw up a list of representatives of other relevant 
non-governmental organizations, academic institutions and the private sector who 
may participate in the high-level dialogue and the one-day informal interactive 
hearings, on the basis of recommendations by the Secretary-General in respect of 
their specific expertise and involvement in international migration and development 
issues, taking into account geographical representation; the list will be considered 
by the Member States on a non-objection basis no later than one month prior to the 
hearings provided for in paragraph 11 above;  

 13. Decides that representatives of non-governmental organizations in 
consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, civil society 
organizations and the private sector, one from each grouping having been selected 
during the informal interactive hearings, are to be included by the President of the 
General Assembly, after consultation with Member States, in the list of speakers for 
the plenary meetings of the high-level dialogue, time permitting, and also decides 
that the President of the General Assembly, in consultation with Member States, will 
determine the list of non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the 
Economic and Social Council, civil society organizations and the private sector 
representatives that can participate in each of the round tables of the high-level 
dialogue, taking into account the principle of equitable geographical representation; 



 A/C.2/67/L.15/Rev.1
 

5 12-64623 
 

 14. Invites the President of the General Assembly, with the assistance of the 
Secretariat and with support from interested Member States, the United Nations 
system and other stakeholders, to organize, prior to the high-level dialogue, a panel 
discussion with a focus on its overall theme, complementary to and taking into 
account other preparatory initiatives relating to the high-level dialogue;  

 15. Requests the Secretary-General, with inputs from the members of the 
Global Migration Group and other relevant entities, to prepare a comprehensive 
overview of studies and analyses on the multidimensional aspects of migration and 
development, including the effects of migration on economic and social 
development in developed and developing countries;  

 16. Invites the regional commissions and their subregional offices, in 
collaboration with other relevant entities of the United Nations system, as well as 
the International Organization for Migration and the Council of the International 
Organization for Migration, to organize discussions to examine regional aspects of 
international migration and development and to provide inputs, in accordance with 
their respective mandates, to the preparatory process of the high-level dialogue;  

 17. Invites Member States, through appropriate regional consultative 
processes and, as appropriate, within other major initiatives in the field of 
international migration and development, including the Global Forum on Migration 
and Development, to contribute to the high-level dialogue;  

 18. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-ninth session, 
under the item entitled “Globalization and interdependence”, the sub-item entitled 
“International migration and development”;  

 19. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-ninth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution.  

 


