






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/66/L.54

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
28 October 2011 
 
Original: English 

 

11-57081 (E)    021111     
*1157081*   

Sixty-sixth session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 69 (c) 
Promotion and protection of human rights: human rights  
situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives  

 
 
 

  Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, 
Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and United States of 
America: draft resolution  
 
 

  Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea  
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Reaffirming that States Members of the United Nations have an obligation to 
promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the 
obligations that they have undertaken under the various international instruments,  

 Mindful that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a party to the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,1 the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,1 the Convention on the Rights of the Child2 
and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against 
Women,3  

 Acknowledging the participation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
in the universal periodic review process, expressing serious concern at the refusal of 
the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to articulate its 
position as to which recommendations included in the outcome report of its 

__________________ 

 1  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.  
 2  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.  
 3  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378.  



A/C.3/66/L.54  
 

11-57081 2 
 

universal periodic review4 in March 2010 enjoy its support, and regretting the 
continuing lack of action by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to 
implement the recommendations contained in the report,  

 Recalling the concluding observations of the treaty-monitoring bodies under 
the four treaties to which the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a party,  

 Noting with appreciation the collaboration established between the Government 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United Nations Children’s 
Fund and the World Health Organization in order to improve the health situation in 
the country, and the collaboration established with the United Nations Children’s 
Fund in order to improve the quality of education for children,  

 Noting the decision on the resumption, on a modest scale, of the activities of 
the United Nations Development Programme in the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea, and encouraging the engagement of the Government with the international 
community to ensure that the programmes benefit the persons in need of assistance,  

 Noting the cooperation established between the Government of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and the World Food Programme, the United Nations 
Children’s Fund and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations 
for the purpose of conducting a rapid food security assessment in the country, as 
well as the letter of understanding signed with the World Food Programme, and 
emphasizing the importance of providing further access to all United Nations entities,  

 Recalling its resolutions 60/173 of 16 December 2005, 61/174 of 19 December 
2006, 62/167 of 18 December 2007, 63/190 of 18 December 2008, 64/175 of 
18 December 2009 and 65/225 of 21 December 2010, Commission on Human Rights 
resolutions 2003/10 of 16 April 2003,5 2004/13 of 15 April 20046 and 2005/11 of 
14 April 2005,7 Human Rights Council decision 1/102 of 30 June 20068 and 
Council resolutions 7/15 of 27 March 2008,9 10/16 of 26 March 2009,10 13/14 of 25 
March 201011 and 16/8 of 24 March 2011,12 and mindful of the need for the 
international community to strengthen its coordinated efforts aimed at achieving the 
implementation of those resolutions,  

 Taking note of the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human 
rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,13 regretting that he still has 
not been allowed to visit the country and that he received no cooperation from the 
authorities of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and taking note also of 
the comprehensive report of the Secretary-General on the situation of human rights 

__________________ 

 4  A/HRC/13/13.  
 5  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), 

chap. II, sect. A.  
 6  Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), chap. II, sect. A.  
 7  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/2005/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.  
 8  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/61/53), 

chap. II, sect. B.  
 9  Ibid., Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), chap. II.  
 10  Ibid., Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/64/53), chap. II, sect. A.  
 11  Ibid., Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 53 and corrigendum (A/65/53 and Corr.1), chap. II, 

sect. A.  
 12  Ibid., Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/66/53), chap. II, sect. A.  
 13  See A/66/322.  



 A/C.3/66/L.54
 

3 11-57081 
 

in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea submitted in accordance with 
resolution 65/225,14  

 Noting the importance of the inter-Korean dialogue, which could contribute to 
the improvement of the human rights and humanitarian situation in the country,  

 Noting with regret that the reunion of separated families across the border, 
which is an urgent humanitarian concern of the entire Korean people, has been 
halted, and hoping that it will be resumed as early as possible and that necessary 
arrangements for further reunions on a larger scale and a regular basis will be made 
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea,  

 1. Expresses its very serious concern at:  

 (a) The persistence of continuing reports of systematic, widespread and 
grave violations of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights in the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including:  

 (i) Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, 
including inhuman conditions of detention, public executions, extrajudicial 
and arbitrary detention; the absence of due process and the rule of law, 
including fair trial guarantees and an independent judiciary; the imposition of 
the death penalty for political and religious reasons; collective punishments; 
and the existence of a large number of prison camps and the extensive use of 
forced labour;  

 (ii) Limitations imposed on every person who wishes to move freely within 
the country and travel abroad, including the punishment of those who leave or 
try to leave the country without permission, or their families, as well as 
punishment of persons who are returned;  

 (iii) The situation of refugees and asylum-seekers expelled or returned to the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and sanctions imposed on citizens of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea who have been repatriated from 
abroad, leading to punishments of internment, torture, cruel, inhuman or 
degrading treatment or the death penalty, and in this regard strongly urges all 
States to respect the fundamental principle of non-refoulement, to treat those 
who seek refuge humanely and to ensure unhindered access to the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and his Office, with a view to 
protecting the human rights of those who seek refuge, and once again urges 
States parties to comply with their obligations under the 1951 Convention 
relating to the Status of Refugees15 and the 1967 Protocol thereto16 in relation 
to refugees from the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea who are covered 
by those instruments;  

 (iv) All-pervasive and severe restrictions on the freedoms of thought, 
conscience, religion, opinion and expression, peaceful assembly and association, 
the right to privacy and equal access to information, by such means as the 
persecution of individuals exercising their freedom of opinion and expression, 
and their families, and the right of everyone to take part in the conduct of public 
affairs, directly or through freely chosen representatives, of his or her country;  

__________________ 

 14  A/66/343.  
 15  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No. 2545.  
 16  Ibid., vol. 606, No. 8791.  



A/C.3/66/L.54  
 

11-57081 4 
 

 (v) The violations of economic, social and cultural rights, which have led to 
severe malnutrition, widespread health problems and other hardship for the 
population in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in particular for 
persons belonging to particularly exposed groups, inter alia, women, children 
and the elderly;  

 (vi) Continuing violations of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of 
women, in particular the trafficking of women for the purpose of prostitution 
or forced marriage and the subjection of women to human smuggling, forced 
abortions, gender-based discrimination, including in the economic sphere, and 
gender-based violence and continuing impunity for such violence;  

 (vii) Continuing reports of violations of the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of children, in particular the continued lack of access to basic 
economic, social and cultural rights for many children, and in this regard notes 
the particularly vulnerable situation faced by, inter alia, returned or repatriated 
children, street children, children with disabilities, children whose parents are 
detained, children living in detention or in institutions and children in conflict 
with the law;  

 (viii) Continuing reports of violations of the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of persons with disabilities, especially the use of collective camps 
and of coercive measures that target the rights of persons with disabilities to 
decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children;  

 (ix) Violations of workers’ rights, including the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, the right to strike as defined by the 
obligations of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea under the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,1 and the 
prohibition of the economic exploitation of children and of any harmful or 
hazardous work of children as defined by the obligations of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea under the Convention on the Rights of the Child;2  

 (b) The continued refusal of the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea to recognize the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the 
situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea or to extend 
cooperation to him, despite the renewal of the mandate by the Human Rights 
Council in its resolutions 7/15,9 10/16,10 13/1411 and 16/8;12  

 (c) The continued refusal of the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea to articulate which recommendations enjoyed its support 
following its universal periodic review by the Human Rights Council or to express 
its commitment to their implementation, and regrets the lack of actions taken to date 
to implement the recommendations contained in the final outcome;4  

 2. Reiterates its very serious concern at unresolved questions of international 
concern relating to abductions in the form of enforced disappearance, which violates 
the human rights of nationals of other sovereign countries, and in this regard strongly 
calls upon the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea urgently 
to resolve these questions, including through existing channels, in a transparent 
manner, including by ensuring the immediate return of abductees;  

 3. Expresses its very deep concern at the precarious humanitarian situation, 
including a serious deterioration in the availability of and access to food, in the 



 A/C.3/66/L.54
 

5 11-57081 
 

country, partly as a result of frequent natural disasters, compounded by structural 
weaknesses in agricultural production resulting in significant shortages of food, and 
the increasing State restrictions on the cultivation and trade in foodstuffs, as well as 
the prevalence of chronic and acute malnutrition, particularly among the most 
vulnerable groups, pregnant women, infants and the elderly, which, despite some 
progress, continues to affect the physical and mental development of a significant 
proportion of children, and urges the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, in this regard, to take preventive and remedial action, cooperating 
where necessary with international donor agencies and in accordance with 
international standards for monitoring humanitarian assistance;  

 4. Commends the Special Rapporteur for the activities undertaken so far and 
for his continued efforts in the conduct of his mandate despite the limited access to 
information;  

 5. Strongly urges the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea to respect fully all human rights and fundamental freedoms and, in this regard:  

 (a) To immediately put an end to the systematic, widespread and grave 
violations of human rights mentioned above, inter alia, by implementing fully the 
measures set out in the above-mentioned resolutions of the General Assembly, the 
Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council, and the 
recommendations addressed to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea by the 
Human Rights Council in the context of the universal periodic review and the 
United Nations special procedures and treaty bodies;  

 (b) To protect its inhabitants, address the issue of impunity and ensure that 
those responsible for violations of human rights are brought to justice before an 
independent judiciary;  

 (c) To tackle the root causes leading to refugee outflows and prosecute those 
who exploit refugees by human smuggling, trafficking and extortion, while not 
criminalizing the victims, and to ensure that citizens of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea expelled or returned to the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea are able to return in safety and dignity, are humanely treated and are not 
subjected to any kind of punishment;  

 (d) To extend its full cooperation to the Special Rapporteur, including by 
granting him full, free and unimpeded access to the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea, and to other United Nations human rights mechanisms so that a full needs 
assessment of the human rights situation may be made;  

 (e) To engage in technical cooperation activities in the field of human rights 
with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and her Office, as 
pursued by the High Commissioner in recent years, with a view to improving the 
situation of human rights in the country, and strive to implement the recommendations 
made in the universal periodic review by the Human Rights Council;  

 (f) To engage in cooperation with the International Labour Organization 
with a view to significantly improving workers’ rights;  

 (g) To continue and reinforce its cooperation with United Nations 
humanitarian agencies;  



A/C.3/66/L.54  
 

11-57081 6 
 

 (h) To ensure full, safe and unhindered access to humanitarian aid and take 
measures to allow humanitarian agencies to secure its impartial delivery to all parts 
of the country on the basis of need in accordance with humanitarian principles, as it 
pledged to do, and to ensure access to adequate food and implement more effective 
food security policies, including through sustainable agriculture, sound food 
production and distribution measures and by allocating more funds to the food 
sector, and to ensure adequate monitoring of humanitarian assistance;  

 (i) To improve cooperation with the United Nations country team and 
development agencies so that they can directly contribute to improving the living 
conditions of the civilian population, including accelerating progress towards the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, in accordance with international 
monitoring and evaluation procedures;  

 (j)  To consider ratifying and acceding to remaining international human 
rights treaties, which would enable a dialogue with the human rights treaty bodies;  

 6. Decides to continue its examination of the situation of human rights in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea at its sixty-seventh session, and to this 
end requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the 
situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and requests the Special 
Rapporteur to continue to report his findings and recommendations.  

 

 

 


