






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/64/L.22

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
20 October 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-56909 (E)    211009     
*0956909*   

Sixty-fourth session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 69 (a)  
Promotion and protection of human rights: implementation  
of human rights instruments 

 
 
 

  Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Guatemala, Iceland, 
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Panama, Netherlands, 
Norway, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland and Uruguay: draft resolution 
 
 

  International Covenants on Human Rights 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 62/147 of 18 December 2007 and Commission on 
Human Rights resolution 2004/69 of 21 April 2004,1 

 Mindful that the International Covenants on Human Rights2 constitute the first 
all-embracing and legally binding international treaties in the field of human rights 
and, together with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,3 form the core of the 
International Bill of Human Rights, 

 Recalling the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights2 
and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 and reaffirming that 
all human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal, indivisible, 
interdependent and interrelated, that they should be treated in a fair and equal 
manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis, and that the promotion 
and protection of one category of rights should never exempt or excuse States from 
the promotion and protection of the other rights, 

 Recalling also the adoption of the Optional Protocol to the International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights by the General Assembly on the 
occasion of the sixtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 

__________________ 

 1  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), 
chap. II, sect. A. 

 2  Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  Resolution 217 A (III). 



A/C.3/64/L.22  
 

09-56909 2 
 

 Recognizing the important role of the Human Rights Committee and the 
Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in examining the progress 
made by States parties in fulfilling the obligations undertaken in the International 
Covenants on Human Rights and their Optional Protocols and in providing 
recommendations to States parties on their implementation, 

 Considering that the effective functioning of the Human Rights Committee 
and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights is indispensable for the 
full and effective implementation of the International Covenants on Human Rights, 

 Recognizing the importance of regional human rights instruments and 
monitoring mechanisms in complementing the universal system of promotion and 
protection of human rights, 

 1. Reaffirms the importance of the International Covenants on Human 
Rights2 as major components of international efforts to promote universal respect 
for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms; 

 2. Strongly appeals to all States that have not yet done so to become parties 
to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights2 and the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 and to consider acceding to 
their Optional Protocols and making the declarations provided for in article 41 of 
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and in articles 10 and 11 of 
the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights, and, while acknowledging that additional States have recently 
become parties to these instruments, requests the Secretary-General to continue to 
support the annual treaty event to this end; 

 3.  Acknowledges the ceremony of opening for signature of the Optional 
Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on 
24 September 2009 during the 2009 Treaty event and the signatures deposited in the 
event, with a view to its early entry into force; 

 4. Invites the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to 
intensify systematic efforts to encourage States to become parties to the 
International Covenants on Human Rights and, through the programme of advisory 
services in the field of human rights, to assist such States, at their request, in 
ratifying or acceding to the Covenants and to the Optional Protocols to them with a 
view to achieving universal adherence;  

 5. Calls for the strictest compliance by States parties with their obligations 
under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and, where applicable, the 
Optional Protocols to them;  

 6. Emphasizes that States must ensure that any measure to combat terrorism 
complies with their obligations under relevant international law, including their 
obligations under the International Covenants on Human Rights, and welcomes the 
reports submitted by the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism;4 

__________________ 

 4  See A/63/223 and A/64/211; A/HRC/6/17 and Add.1-4 and Add.4/Corr.1; and A/HRC/10/3 and 
Add.1 and 2. 



 A/C.3/64/L.22
 

3 09-56909 
 

 7. Stresses the importance of avoiding the erosion of human rights by 
derogation, and recalls that certain rights are recognized as non-derogable in any 
circumstances, underlines the exceptional and temporary nature of any such 
derogations, and that they must be in accordance with the conditions and procedures 
stipulated under article 4 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 
bearing in mind the need for States parties to provide the fullest possible 
information during states of emergency so that the justification for the 
appropriateness of measures taken in those circumstances can be assessed, and in 
this regard takes note of General Comment No. 29 adopted by the Human Rights 
Committee;5 

 8. Encourages States parties to consider limiting the extent of any 
reservations that they lodge to the International Covenants on Human Rights and 
their Optional Protocols, to formulate any reservations as precisely and narrowly as 
possible and to regularly review such reservations with a view to withdrawing them 
so as to ensure that no reservation is incompatible with the object and purpose of the 
relevant treaty;  

 9. Welcomes the annual reports of the Human Rights Committee submitted 
to the General Assembly at its sixty-third6 and sixty-fourth7 sessions, and takes note 
of the General Comments adopted by the Committee, including the most recent, 
General Comment No. 33 on the obligations of States parties under the Optional 
Protocol;8 

 10. Also welcomes the reports of the Committee on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights on its thirty-eighth and thirty-ninth sessions9 and on its fortieth and 
forty-first sessions,10 and takes note of the General Comments adopted by the 
Committee, including the most recent, General Comment No. 19 on the right to 
social security,11 and General Comment No. 20 on non-discrimination in economic, 
social and cultural rights;12 

 11. Expresses regret at the number of States parties that have failed to fulfil 
their reporting obligations under the International Covenants on Human Rights, 
urges States parties to fulfil their reporting obligations on time, invites them to make 
use of the harmonized guidelines on reporting under the international human rights 
treaties, including guidelines on a common core document and treaty-specific 
documents,13 when submitting reports, and urges States to attend and participate in 
the consideration of the reports by the Human Rights Committee and the Committee 
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights when so requested;  

 12. Urges States parties to make use in their reports of sex-disaggregated 
data, and stresses the importance of integrating a gender perspective in the 

__________________ 

 5  Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 40 (A/56/40), 
vol. I, annex VI. 

 6  Ibid., Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 40 (A/63/40), vols. I and II. 
 7  Ibid., Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 40 (A/64/40), vols. I and II. 
 8  Ibid., vol. I. 
 9  Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2008, Supplement No. 2 (E/2008/22). 
 10  Ibid., 2009, Supplement No. 2 (E/2009/22). 
 11  Ibid., 2008, Supplement No. 2 (E/2008/22). 
 12  E/C.12/GC/20. 
 13  HRI/GEN/2/Rev.5; Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement 

No. 2 (E/2009/22), annex VIII. 



A/C.3/64/L.22  
 

09-56909 4 
 

implementation of the International Covenants on Human Rights at the national 
level, including in the national reports of States parties and in the work of the 
Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural 
Rights; 

 13. Strongly encourages States parties that have not yet submitted core 
documents to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights to do so, invites them to make use of the harmonized guidelines on reporting, 
and also invites all States parties regularly to review and update their core 
documents while bearing in mind the current discussion on the elaboration of an 
expanded core document; 

 14. Urges States parties to take duly into account, in implementing the 
provisions of the International Covenants on Human Rights, the recommendations 
and observations made during the consideration of their reports by the Human 
Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and 
the views adopted by the Human Rights Committee under the first Optional Protocol 
to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and the Committee on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights under the Optional Protocol to the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights following its entry 
into force; 

 15.  Welcomes, in this regard, measures taken by both Committees to follow 
up their concluding observations, including the adoption by the Human Rights 
Committee of a set of proposals to strengthen its follow-up procedure;14 

 16. Urges all States to publish the texts of the International Covenants on 
Human Rights and their Optional Protocols in as many local languages as possible 
and to distribute them and make them known as widely as possible to all individuals 
within their territory and subject to their jurisdiction;  

 17. Urges each State party to give particular attention to the dissemination at 
the national level of their reports submitted to the Human Rights Committee and the 
Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and, further, to translate, 
publish and make available as widely as possible to all individuals within its 
territory and subject to its jurisdiction by appropriate means the full text of the 
recommendations and observations made by the Committees after the examination 
of those reports;  

 18. Reiterates that States parties should take into account, in their 
nomination of members to the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, that the Committees shall be composed of 
persons of high moral character and recognized competence in the field of human 
rights, consideration being given to the usefulness of the participation of some 
persons having legal experience, and to equal representation of women and men, 
and that members serve in their personal capacity, and also reiterates that, in the 
elections of the Committees, consideration shall be given to equitable geographical 
distribution of membership and to the representation of the different forms of 
civilization and of the principal legal systems;  

 19. Invites the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights, when considering the reports of States parties, to 

__________________ 

 14  CCPR/C/95/3. 



 A/C.3/64/L.22
 

5 09-56909 
 

continue to identify specific needs that might be addressed by United Nations 
departments, funds and programmes and the specialized agencies, including through 
the programme of advisory services and technical cooperation of the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights; 

 20. Stresses the need for improved coordination among relevant United 
Nations mechanisms and bodies in supporting States parties, upon their request, in 
implementing the International Covenants on Human Rights and their Optional 
Protocols, and encourages continued efforts in this direction;  

 21. Expresses its appreciation for the efforts made so far by the Human 
Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to 
improve the efficiency of their working methods, encourages the Committees to 
pursue their efforts, welcomes in this regard the meetings held by the Committees 
and States parties to exchange ideas on how to render the working methods of the 
Committees more efficient, and encourages all States parties to continue to 
contribute to the dialogue with practical and concrete proposals and ideas on ways 
to improve the effective functioning of the Committees; 

 22. Encourages the specialized agencies that have not yet done so to submit 
their reports on the progress made in achieving the observance of the provisions of 
the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, in accordance 
with article 18 of the Covenant, and expresses its appreciation to those that have 
done so;  

 23. Encourages the Secretary-General to continue to assist States parties to 
the International Covenants on Human Rights in the timely preparation of their 
reports, including by convening seminars or workshops at the national level for the 
training of government officials engaged in the preparation of such reports and by 
exploring other possibilities at the request of States, such as the programme of 
advisory services and technical cooperation in the field of human rights; 

 24. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights effectively assists the Human Rights 
Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the 
implementation of their respective mandates by providing, inter alia, adequate 
Secretariat staff resources and conference and other relevant support services; 

 25. Also requests the Secretary-General to keep the General Assembly 
informed of the status of the International Covenants on Human Rights and their 
Optional Protocols, including all reservations and declarations, through the United 
Nations websites.  

 

 

 


