











































Microsoft Word - 0555481e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/60/L.17

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
14 October 2005

Original: English

05-55481 (E)    171005

*0555481*

Sixtieth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 64
Advancement of women

Andorra, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, Sierra Leone, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Thailand and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland: draft resolution

Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 58/145 of 22 December 2003 and its previous
resolutions on the elimination of discrimination against women,

Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in
Articles 1 and 55 of the Charter, is to promote universal respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including
distinction as to sex,

Reiterating the need to intensify efforts to eliminate all forms of
discrimination against women throughout the world,

Affirming that women and men should participate equally in social, economic
and political development, should contribute equally to such development and
should share equally in improved conditions of life,

Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 in which the Conference
reaffirmed that the human rights of women and the girl child were an inalienable,
integral and indivisible part of universal human rights,

__________________
1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.



2

A/C.3/60/L.17

Acknowledging the need for a comprehensive and integrated approach to the
promotion and protection of the human rights of women, which includes the
integration of the human rights of women into the mainstream of United Nations
activities system-wide,

Reaffirming the commitments made in the political declaration2 and the
outcome document3 of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly,
entitled “Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first
century”, in particular paragraphs 68 (c) and (d) concerning the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women4 and the Optional
Protocol thereto,5

Recalling the declaration of the Commission on the Status of Women on the
occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women, which
recognizes that the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for
Action6 and the fulfilment of the obligations under the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women are mutually reinforcing
in achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women,7

Recalling that, in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,8 heads of State
and Government resolved to implement the Convention,

Recognizing that the equal enjoyment by women of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms will promote the realization of the rights of the child, bearing
in mind the special needs of girls, and acknowledging the mutual reinforcement of
the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child9 and
the Optional Protocols thereto,10

Noting that 18 December 2004 marked the twenty-fifth anniversary of the
adoption, by the General Assembly, of the Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Discrimination against Women and welcoming the statement of the
Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women to commemorate
the occasion,11

Bearing in mind the recommendation of the Committee on the Elimination of
Discrimination against Women that national reports should contain information on
the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action,12 in accordance with
paragraph 323 of the Platform,

__________________
2 Resolution S-23/2, annex.
3 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
4 Resolution 34/180, annex.
5 Resolution 54/4, annex.
6 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United

Nations publication Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
7 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 7 (E/2005/27-

E/CN.6/2005/11), chap. I, sect. A, para. 4.
8 See resolution 55/2.
9 Resolution 44/25, annex.

10 Resolution 54/263, annexes I and II.
11 CEDAW/C/2005/I/4, annex III.
12 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United

Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.



3

A/C.3/60/L.17

Having considered the reports of the Committee on its thirtieth and thirty-
first,13 and thirty-second and thirty-third sessions,14

Expressing concern at the great number of reports that are overdue (187), in
particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of
the Convention,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General15 on the status of the
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;4

2. Also welcomes the growing number of States parties to the Convention,
which now stands at one hundred and eighty, while expressing disappointment that
universal ratification of the Convention was not achieved by 2000, and urges all
States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Convention to do so;

3. Further welcomes the rapidly growing number of States parties to the
Optional Protocol,5 which now stands at seventy-three, and urges other States
parties to the Convention to consider signing and ratifying or acceding to the
Optional Protocol;

4. Urges States parties to comply fully with their obligations under the
Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto and to take into consideration the
concluding comments as well as the general recommendations of the Committee on
the Elimination of Discrimination against Women;

5. Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system, within
their mandates, as well as Governments and intergovernmental and non-
governmental organizations, in particular women’s organizations, as appropriate, to
strengthen assistance to States parties, upon their request, in implementing the
Convention;

6. Notes that some States parties have modified their reservations, expresses
satisfaction that some reservations have been withdrawn and urges States parties to
limit the extent of any reservations that they lodge to the Convention, to formulate
any such reservations as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no
reservations are incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention, to
review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to
withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention;

7. Welcomes the adoption by the Committee of revised reporting
guidelines16 and urges States parties to adhere to the revised guidelines, in particular
with regard to the content and length of reports;

8. Recalls the great number of overdue reports, in particular initial reports,
and urges States parties to the Convention to make every possible effort to submit
their reports on the implementation of the Convention in a timely manner, in
accordance with article 18 thereof;

__________________
13 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/59/38).
14 Ibid., Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/60/38).
15 A/60/206.
16 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/57/38),

part two, annex.



4

A/C.3/60/L.17

9. Also recalls its resolution 50/202 of 22 December 1995, in which it took
note with approval of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention,
which has yet to enter into force;

10. Strongly urges States parties to the Convention to take appropriate
measures so that acceptance of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the
Convention by a two-thirds majority of States parties can be reached as soon as
possible and the amendment enter into force;

11. Expresses its appreciation for the efforts made by the Committee to
improve the efficiency of its working methods, in particular the measures introduced
following the informal meeting held in Utrecht, the Netherlands, from 5 to 7 May
2004,17 and encourages the Committee to enhance its activities in this regard,
bearing in mind the need to increase the effectiveness of the work of the Committee;

12. Notes decision 33/I of the Committee,18 in which it requests an extension
of its meeting time;

13. Also notes that, in the three years since the holding of the exceptional
session in August 2002, a new backlog of reports of States parties has accumulated;

14. Decides to authorize the Committee to hold three annual sessions of three
weeks each, with a one-week pre-sessional working group for each session,
effective from January 2006 as a temporary measure, and to continue to authorize
two annual sessions of the Working Group on Communications under the Optional
Protocol to the Convention;

15. Also decides to authorize the Committee to meet on a temporary basis in
2006 and 2007 for up to seven days in parallel working groups during its third
(July/August) annual session in 2006, and its first (January) and third (July/August)
annual sessions in 2007, taking due account of equitable geographical distribution,
for the purpose of considering reports of States parties submitted under article 18 of
the Convention;

16. Urges the Committee to evaluate progress and decides to assess the
situation with regard to the Committee’s meeting time after two years, also taking
into account the wider context of treaty body reform;

17. Encourages the Secretariat to extend further technical assistance to States
parties, upon their request, to strengthen their capacity in the preparation of reports,
in particular initial reports, and invites Governments to contribute to those efforts;

18. Invites States parties to make use of the technical assistance provided by
the Secretariat to facilitate the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports;

19. Encourages the continued participation of members of the Committee in
inter-committee meetings and meetings of persons chairing the human rights treaty
bodies, including those on methods of work relating to the State reporting system;

20. Encourages the Committee, within its mandate, to continue to contribute
to the efforts to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the treaty bodies;

__________________
17 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/59/38).
18 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/60/38),

part two, chap. I.



5

A/C.3/60/L.17

21. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 54/4 of 6 October 1999, to provide the resources, including staff and
facilities, necessary for the effective functioning of the Committee within its full
mandate, taking into account in particular the entry into force of the Optional
Protocol;

22. Urges Governments, organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to disseminate
the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;

23. Encourages States parties to disseminate the concluding comments
adopted in relation to the consideration of their reports, as well as the general
recommendations of the Committee;

24. Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system to continue
to build women’s knowledge and understanding of and capacity to utilize human
rights instruments, in particular the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;

25. Urges the specialized agencies, at the invitation of the Committee, to
submit reports on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the
scope of their activities;

26. Welcomes the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the
work of the Committee;

27. Invites the Chairperson of the Committee on the Elimination of
Discrimination against Women to address the General Assembly at its sixty-first and
sixty-second sessions under the item on the advancement of women;

28. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
sixty-second session a report on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of
All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the implementation of the present
resolution.


