






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/62/L.29

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
1 November 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-57706 (E)    021107 
*0757706* 

Sixty-second session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 70 (b) 
Promotion and protection of human rights: human  
rights questions, including alternative approaches  
for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights  
and fundamental freedoms 

 
 
 

  Albania, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, 
Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cape Verde, Chile, 
Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, 
Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Turkey, 
Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
Uruguay, Vanuatu and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of): draft resolution 
 
 

  Moratorium on the use of the death penalty 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Guided by the purposes and principles contained in the Charter of the United 
Nations, 

 Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and the Convention on the Rights of the 
Child,3  

 Recalling also the resolutions on the question of the death penalty adopted 
over the past decade by the Commission on Human Rights in all consecutive 
sessions, the last being its resolution 2005/59,4 in which the Commission called 

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 4  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 3 and 

corrigenda (E/2005/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A. 



A/C.3/62/L.29  
 

07-57706 2 
 

upon States that still maintain the death penalty to abolish it completely and, in the 
meantime, to establish a moratorium on executions, 

 Recalling further the important results accomplished by the former 
Commission on Human Rights on the question of the death penalty, and envisaging 
that the Human Rights Council could continue to work on this issue, 

 Considering that the use of the death penalty undermines human dignity, and 
convinced that a moratorium on the use of the death penalty contributes to the 
enhancement and progressive development of human rights, that there is no 
conclusive evidence of the death penalty’s deterrent value and that any miscarriage 
or failure of justice in the death penalty’s implementation is irreversible and 
irreparable, 

 Welcoming the decisions taken by an increasing number of States to apply a 
moratorium on executions, followed in many cases by the abolition of the death 
penalty, 

 1. Expresses its deep concern about the continued application of the death 
penalty; 

 2. Calls upon all States that still maintain the death penalty to:  

 (a) Respect international standards that provide safeguards guaranteeing the 
protection of the rights of those facing the death penalty, in particular the minimum 
standards, as set out in the annex to Economic and Social Council resolution 
1984/50 of 25 May 1984; 

 (b) Provide the Secretary-General with information relating to the use of 
capital punishment and the observance of the safeguards guaranteeing the protection 
of the rights of those facing the death penalty; 

 (c) Progressively restrict the use of the death penalty and reduce the number 
of offences for which it may be imposed; 

 (d) Establish a moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death 
penalty; 

 3. Calls upon States which have abolished the death penalty not to 
reintroduce it; 

 4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-third session on the implementation of the present resolution;  

 5. Decides to continue consideration of the matter at its sixty-third session 
under the same agenda item.  

 


