











































Microsoft Word - 0460168e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/59/L.71

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
10 November 2004

Original: English

04-60168 (E)    111104

*0460168*

Fifty-ninth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 103
Elimination of racism and racial discrimination

Qatar:* draft resolution

Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the
comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 58/160 of 22 December 2003, by which it decided to
place emphasis on the concrete implementation of the Durban Declaration and
Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held at Durban, South Africa,
from 31 August to 8 September 20011 as a solid foundation for a broad-based
consensus for further actions and initiatives towards the total elimination of the
scourge of racism,

Recalling also its resolution 57/195 of 18 December 2002, by which it outlined
the important roles and responsibilities of the various organs of the United Nations
and other stakeholders at the international, regional and national levels, including, in
particular, the Commission on Human Rights,

Recalling further its resolution 56/266 of 27 March 2002, in which it endorsed
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action as constituting a solid foundation
for further action and initiatives towards the total elimination of the scourge of
racism,

Endorsing Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2002/68 of 25 April
2002,2 2003/30 of 23 April 20033 and 2004/88 of 22 April 2004,4 by which the

__________________

* On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and
China.

1 See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I.
2 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Supplement No. 3 (E/2002/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
3 Ibid., 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), chap. II, sect. A.
4 Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), chap. II, sect. A.



2

A/C.3/59/L.71

international community put into effect mechanisms for the effective
implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,

Reaffirming its commitment to a global drive for the total elimination of
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,

Reaffirming also that universal adherence to and full implementation of the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination5
are of paramount importance for the promotion of equality and non-discrimination
in the world,

Underlining the primacy of political will, international cooperation and
adequate funding at the national, regional and international levels for the successful
implementation of the Durban Programme of Action,

Deploring the increase in racist violence and xenophobic ideas in many parts
of the world, in political circles, in the sphere of public opinion and in society at
large, inter alia, as a result of the resurgent activities of associations established on
the basis of racist and xenophobic platforms and charters, and the persistent use of
those platforms and charters to promote or incite racist ideologies,

Underlining that any form of impunity for crimes motivated by racist and
xenophobic attitudes plays a role in weakening the rule of law and democracy, tends
to encourage the recurrence of such crimes and requires resolute action and
cooperation for its eradication,

Welcoming all the regional initiatives being undertaken to implement the
Durban commitments, and in this context expressing its appreciation to the
Governments of Mexico, Kenya, the Czech Republic and Belgium for hosting the
regional expert seminars with a view to the implementation of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action within their respective regions, and
encouraging the remaining region to take the necessary action in this regard,

Welcoming also the determination by the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights to profile and increase the visibility of the struggle against
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and her intention
to make this a cross-cutting issue in the activities and programmes of her Office,

I. Basic general principles

1. Acknowledges that no derogation from the prohibition of racial
discrimination, genocide, the crime of apartheid or slavery is permitted, as defined
in the obligations under the relevant human rights instruments;

2. Stresses that States and international organizations have a responsibility
to ensure that measures taken in the struggle against terrorism do not discriminate in
purpose or effect on grounds of race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin,
and urges all States to rescind or refrain from all forms of racial profiling;

3. Emphasizes that it is the responsibility of States to adopt effective
measures to combat criminal acts motivated by racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance, including measures to ensure that such

__________________
5 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.



3

A/C.3/59/L.71

motivations are considered an aggravating factor for the purposes of sentencing to
prevent those crimes from going unpunished and to ensure the rule of law;

4. Urges all States to review and, where necessary, revise their immigration
laws, policies and practices so that they are free of racial discrimination and
compatible with their obligations under international human rights instruments;

5. Condemns the misuse of the Internet to incite violence motivated by
racial hatred, and calls upon States to take all necessary measures to combat this
form of racism in accordance with the commitments undertaken under the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action,1 in particular paragraph 147 of the
Programme of Action;

6. Encourages all States to include in their educational curricula and social
programmes at all levels, as appropriate, knowledge of and tolerance and respect for
foreign cultures, peoples and countries;

7. Stresses the responsibility of States to mainstream a gender perspective
in the design and development of prevention, education and protection measures
aimed at the eradication of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance at all levels, to ensure that they effectively target the distinct situations
of women and men;

8. Expresses its concern at the increasing incidents of racism in various
sporting events;

II. International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Racial Discrimination

9. Endorses the concern expressed by the Commission on Human Rights in
its resolution 2004/88 to the effect that at the current pace, with 169 ratifications
and only 45 declarations, the deadline of 2005 for the universal ratification of the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,5

decided by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, will, regrettably, not be realized;

10. Urges, in that context, the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights to issue regular publications indicating the
countries that have undertaken serious steps to comply with that important
commitment by the World Conference;

11. Invites States parties to the Convention to ratify the amendment to article
8 of the Convention, on the financing of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination, and calls for adequate additional resources from the United Nations
regular budget to enable the Committee to discharge its mandate fully;

12. Urges all States parties to the Convention to intensify their efforts to
implement the obligations that they have accepted under article 4 of the Convention,
with due regard to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights6 and
article 5 of the Convention;

13. Notes that the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
holds that the prohibition of the dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or

__________________
6 Resolution 217 A (III).



4

A/C.3/59/L.71

racial hatred is compatible with the right to freedom of opinion and expression as
outlined in article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in article 5
of the Convention;

14. Welcomes the emphasis placed by the Committee on the Elimination of
Racial Discrimination on the importance of follow-up to the World Conference and
the measures recommended to strengthen the implementation of the Convention as
well as the functioning of the Committee;

III. Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration
and Programme of Action

15. Expresses general satisfaction with the implementation of the
commitments undertaken in the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
through the two working groups established for this purpose by the Commission on
Human Rights in its resolutions 2002/68 of 25 April 2002,2 2003/30 of 23 April
20033 and 2004/88 of 22 April 2004;4

16. Underlines, in that context, the importance of continuing the work of
those working groups and the need for regular progress reports to the General
Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights at their annual sessions;

17. Underlines further the importance of the elaboration of complementary
standards with a view to strengthening and updating international instruments
against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, including
an additional protocol to the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, focusing on issues discussed during the previous
sessions of the Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation
of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, as well as issues identified by
the high-level seminar to be convened during the next session of the Working
Group;

18. Decides, in that context, to request the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, in consultation with Member States, to convene a
high-level seminar during the first three days of the fourth session of the
Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action, inviting members of the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Discrimination, to produce a conclusive list of the areas where
gaps exist and for which complementary standards are necessary, as well as to
present concrete proposals on the structure and format of the proposed additional
protocol to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination;

19. Decides also that the programme, structure and format of the high-level
seminar should be mutually agreed among Member States, assisted by the Office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which could include, but
would not necessarily be limited to, inviting a core group of ministers responsible
for human rights from all regions as panellists to share their views on the
desirability of complementary standards;

20. Decides further that no intersessional meetings of the working groups of
the Commission on Human Rights in follow-up to the World Conference and the
implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action shall be



5

A/C.3/59/L.71

scheduled in a manner that clashes or overlaps with the sessions of the General
Assembly;

21. Requests the Secretary-General to present a report on the outcome of the
high-level seminar to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session;

22. Acknowledges that the World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa,
from 31 August to 8 September 2001, was significantly different from the previous
two such conferences, as evidenced by the inclusion in its title of two important
components relating to contemporary forms of racism, namely, xenophobia and
related intolerance, a development pointing to the existence of gaps for which
complementary standards are necessary;

23. Acknowledges further the centrality of resource mobilization, effective
global partnership and international cooperation in the context of paragraphs 157
and 158 of the Durban Programme of Action for the successful realization of
commitments undertaken at the World Conference, and to this end emphasizes the
central role to be played by the group of independent eminent experts in mobilizing
the necessary political will required for the successful implementation of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action;

24. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary resources for the
effective fulfilment of the mandates of the Intergovernmental Working Group on the
Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the
Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent and the group of
independent eminent experts on the implementation of the Durban Declaration and
Programme of Action;

25. Condemns the resurgence of xenophobia, and draws attention to the fact
that, while anchoring human rights in legal instruments is a fundamental way of
expressing their universality, these instruments are no longer capable of addressing
recent events and developments, especially new forms of discrimination targeting
specific populations, religions, cultures or ethnic groups;

26. Condemns also the increased racism in sports, and calls on international
sports entities to take appropriate measures to eradicate it and, to that end, cooperate
with the relevant human rights mechanisms, in particular the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Discrimination and the Special Rapporteur on contemporary
forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;

27. Calls upon Member States to adopt measures to counter the
dissemination of discriminatory, racist and xenophobic messages on the Internet, in
accordance with paragraphs 144 to 147 of the Durban Programme of Action;

28. Requests, in that context, the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights to convene the second meeting of the group of
independent eminent experts before the sixty-first session of the Commission on
Human Rights to determine a concrete programme of action for the experts, based
on the core values for racial equality and dignity as elaborated in the outcome
document of their first meeting, held from 16 to 18 September 2003, and that the
programme of action entail, inter alia, the following:

(a) A calendar of planned visits to heads of State or Government in all
regions with a view to deepening the dialogue and enhancing political will on the



6

A/C.3/59/L.71

global drive for the total elimination of racism, as well as securing tangible
commitments for the funding of anti-racism programmes within the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;

(b) The initiation of a dialogue with all Governments with the aim of
introducing national forums against racism as national frameworks within which all
stakeholders and victims can constructively engage and develop strategies for
eliminating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;

IV. Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary
forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
and follow-up to his visits

29. Expresses its full support and appreciation for the work of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and encourages its
continuation;

30. Reiterates its call to all Member States, intergovernmental organizations,
relevant organizations of the United Nations and non-governmental organizations to
cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur;

31. Requests the Special Rapporteur to continue his exchange of views with
Member States and relevant mechanisms and treaty bodies within the United
Nations system in order to further enhance their effectiveness and mutual
cooperation;

32. Recognizes with deep concern the increase in anti-Semitism,
Christianophobia and Islamophobia in various parts of the world, as well as the
emergence of racial and violent movements based on racism and discriminatory
ideas directed against Arab, Christian, Jewish and Muslim communities,
communities of people of African descent, communities of people of Asian descent
and other communities;

33. Requests the Special Rapporteur to collect information from all
concerned, to respond effectively to reliable information that becomes available to
him, to follow up on communications and country visits and to seek the views and
comments of Governments and reflect them, as appropriate, in his reports;

34. Calls upon States to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur and to give
serious consideration to his requests to visit their countries so as to enable him to
fulfil his mandate fully and effectively;

35. Encourages closer collaboration between the Special Rapporteur and the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in particular
the Anti-Discrimination Unit;

36. Urges the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to
provide States, at their request, with advisory services and technical assistance to
enable them to implement fully the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur;

37. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with
all the necessary human and financial assistance to carry out his mandate efficiently,
effectively and expeditiously and to enable him to submit an interim report to the
General Assembly at its sixtieth session;



7

A/C.3/59/L.71

38. Takes note of the recommendations contained in the interim report of the
Special Rapporteur,7 and encourages the continuation of his work;

39. Urges Member States to consider implementing the recommendations
contained in the reports of the Special Rapporteur, and invites other relevant
stakeholders to implement those recommendations;

40. Calls upon the Special Rapporteur, in carrying out his mandate, to pay
special attention to the increasing frequency of incidents of racism at various
sporting events;

V. General

41. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation
of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session;

42. Decides to remain seized of this important matter under the item entitled
“Elimination of racism and racial discrimination” at its sixtieth session.

__________________
7 A/59/329.


