






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/66/L.60

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
1 November 2011 
 
Original: English 

 

11-57566 (E)    031111 
*1157566*   

Sixty-sixth session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 67 (a) 
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia 
and related intolerance 

 
 
 

  Belarus, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guinea, India, Iraq, Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Russian Federation, Sudan, 
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam 
and Zimbabwe: draft resolution 
 
 

  Inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to fuelling 
contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia 
and related intolerance 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights,1 the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination3 
and other relevant human rights instruments, 

 Recalling the provisions of Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2004/16 
of 16 April 20044 and 2005/5 of 14 April 20055 and relevant Human Rights Council 
resolutions, in particular resolutions 7/34 of 28 March 2008,6 and 18/15 of 
29 September 2011, as well as General Assembly resolutions 60/143 of 
16 December 2005, 61/147 of 19 December 2006, 62/142 of 18 December 2007, 
63/162 of 18 December 2008, 64/147 of 18 December 2009 and 65/199 of 
21 December 2010 on this issue and resolutions 61/149 of 19 December 2006, 
62/220 of 22 December 2007, 63/242 of 24 December 2008, 64/148 of 18 December 

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464. 
 4  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), 

chap. II,  sect. A. 
 5  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/2005/23 and Corr.l and 2), chap. II, sect. A. 
 6  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), 

chap. II. 



A/C.3/66/L.60  
 

11-57566 2 
 

2009 and 65/240 of 24 December 2010, entitled “Global efforts for the total 
elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and 
the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action”, 

 Recalling also the Charter of the Nuremberg Tribunal and the Judgement of 
the Tribunal, which recognized, inter alia, the SS organization and all its integral 
parts, including the Waffen SS, as criminal and declared it responsible for many war 
crimes and crimes against humanity, 

 Recalling further the relevant provisions of the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance on 8 September 2001,7 in 
particular paragraph 2 of the Declaration and paragraph 86 of the Programme of 
Action, as well as the relevant provisions of the outcome document of the Durban 
Review Conference, of 24 April 2009,8 in particular paragraphs 11 and 54, 

 Alarmed, in this regard, at the spread in many parts of the world of various 
extremist political parties, movements and groups, including neo-Nazis and 
skinhead groups, as well as similar extremist ideological movements, 

 Recalling that in 2010 the international community celebrated the sixty-fifth 
anniversary of victory in the Second World War, and welcoming in this regard the 
special solemn meeting of the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly, held on 
6 May 2010, 

 Recalling also that the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly coincides 
with the sixty-fifth anniversary of the Judgement of the Nuremberg Tribunal, 

 Taking note of the report of the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, submitted to the 
Human Rights Council in accordance with the request contained in General 
Assembly resolution 65/199,9 

 1. Reaffirms the relevant provisions of the Durban Declaration7 and of the 
outcome document of the Durban Review Conference,8 in which States condemned 
the persistence and resurgence of neo-Nazism, neo-Fascism and violent nationalist 
ideologies based on racial and national prejudice and stated that those phenomena 
could never be justified in any instance or in any circumstances; 

 2. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Special Rapporteur on 
contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance, prepared in accordance with the request contained in General Assembly 
resolution 65/199;10 

 3. Expresses its appreciation to the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights for her commitment to maintaining the fight against racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance as one of the priority activities of 
her Office; 

__________________ 

 7  See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.l, chap. I. 
 8  See A/CONF.211/8, chap. I. 
 9  A/HRC/18/44. 
 10  See A/66/312. 



 A/C.3/66/L.60
 

3 11-57566 
 

 4. Expresses deep concern about the glorification of the Nazi movement 
and former members of the Waffen SS organization, including by erecting 
monuments and memorials and holding public demonstrations in the name of the 
glorification of the Nazi past, the Nazi movement and neo-Nazism, as well as by 
declaring or attempting to declare such members and those who fought against the 
anti-Hitler coalition and collaborated with the Nazi movement participants in 
national liberation movements; 

 5. Expresses concern at recurring attempts to desecrate or demolish 
monuments erected in remembrance of those who fought against Nazism during the 
Second World War, as well as to unlawfully exhume or remove the remains of such 
persons, and in this regard urges States to fully comply with their relevant 
obligations, inter alia, under article 34 of Additional Protocol I to the Geneva 
Conventions of 1949;11 

 6. Notes with concern the increase in the number of racist incidents in 
several countries and the rise of skinhead groups, which have been responsible for 
many of these incidents, as well as the resurgence of racist and xenophobic violence 
targeting members of national, ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities, as observed 
by the Special Rapporteur in his latest report to the General Assembly; 

 7. Reaffirms that such acts may be qualified to fall within the scope of 
activities described in article 4 of the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Racial Discrimination3 and that they may represent a clear and 
manifest abuse of the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association as 
well as the rights to freedom of opinion and expression within the meaning of those 
rights as guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination; 

 8. Stresses that the practices described above do injustice to the memory of 
the countless victims of crimes against humanity committed in the Second World 
War, in particular those committed by the SS organization and those who fought 
against the anti-Hitler coalition and collaborated with the Nazi movement, and 
poison the minds of young people, and that failure by States to effectively address 
such practices is incompatible with the obligations of States Members of the United 
Nations under its Charter and is incompatible with the purposes and principles of 
the Organization; 

 9. Also stresses that such practices fuel contemporary forms of racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and contribute to the 
spread and multiplication of various extremist political parties, movements and 
groups, including neo-Nazis and skinhead groups, and in this regard calls for 
increased political and legal vigilance; 

 10. Emphasizes the need to take the measures necessary to put an end to the 
practices described above, and calls upon States to take more effective measures in 
accordance with international human rights law to combat those phenomena and the 
extremist movements, which pose a real threat to democratic values; 

 11. Recalls the recommendation of the Special Rapporteur, made in his latest 
report to the General Assembly, to introduce into domestic criminal law a provision 

__________________ 

 11  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1125, No. 17512. 



A/C.3/66/L.60  
 

11-57566 4 
 

according to which committing an offence with racist or xenophobic motivations or 
aims constitutes an aggravating circumstance allowing for enhanced penalties, and 
encourages those States whose legislation does not contain such provisions to 
consider that recommendation; 

 12. Reaffirms, in this regard, the particular importance of all forms of 
education, including human rights education, as a complement to legislative 
measures, as outlined by the Special Rapporteur; 

 13. Emphasizes the recommendation of the Special Rapporteur regarding the 
importance of history classes in teaching the dramatic events and human suffering 
that resulted from the ideologies of Nazism and Fascism; 

 14. Stresses the importance of other positive measures and initiatives aimed 
at bringing communities together and providing them with space for genuine 
dialogue, such as round tables, working groups and seminars, including training 
seminars for State agents and media professionals, as well as awareness-raising 
activities, especially those initiated by civil society representatives which require 
continued State support; 

 15. Underlines the potentially positive role that relevant United Nations 
entities and programmes, in particular the United Nations Educational, Scientific 
and Cultural Organization, can play in the aforementioned areas; 

 16. Reaffirms that, according to article 4 of the International Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, States parties to that 
instrument are under the obligation: 

 (a) To condemn all propaganda and all organizations that are based on ideas 
of racial superiority or that attempt to justify or promote racial hatred and 
discrimination in any form; 

 (b) To undertake to adopt immediate and positive measures designed to 
eradicate all incitement to, or acts of, such discrimination, with due regard to the 
principles embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the rights 
expressly set forth in article 5 of the Convention; 

 (c) To declare as an offence punishable by law all dissemination of ideas 
based on racial superiority or hatred, and incitement to racial discrimination, as well 
as all acts of violence or incitement to such acts against any race or group of persons 
of another colour or ethnic origin, and also the provision of any assistance to racist 
activities, including the financing thereof; 

 (d) To declare illegal and prohibit organizations and organized and all other 
propaganda activities that promote and incite racial discrimination, and to recognize 
participation in such organizations or activities as an offence punishable by law; 

 (e) To prohibit public authorities or public institutions, national or local, 
from promoting or inciting racial discrimination; 

 17. Also reaffirms that, as underlined in paragraph 13 of the outcome 
document of the Durban Review Conference, any advocacy of national, racial or 
religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence 
should be prohibited by law, that all dissemination of ideas based on racial 
superiority or hatred, incitement to racial discrimination and acts of violence or 
incitement to such acts shall be declared offences punishable by law, in accordance 



 A/C.3/66/L.60
 

5 11-57566 
 

with the international obligations of States, and that these prohibitions are consistent 
with freedom of opinion and expression; 

 18. Expresses concern about the use of the Internet to propagate racism, 
racial hatred, xenophobia, racial discrimination and related intolerance, as outlined 
in the latest report of the Special Rapporteur to the General Assembly, and in this 
regard calls upon States parties to the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights to implement fully articles 19 and 20 of the Covenant, which guarantee the 
right to freedom of expression and set out the limitations thereto; 

 19. Underlines, at the same time, the positive role that the exercise of the 
right to freedom of opinion and expression, as well as full respect for the freedom to 
seek, receive and impart information, including through the Internet, can play in 
combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance; 

 20. Encourages those States that have made reservations to article 4 of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 
to give serious consideration to withdrawing such reservations as a matter of 
priority, as stressed by the Special Rapporteur in his report to the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session; 

 21. Notes the importance of strengthening international cooperation at the 
regional and international levels with the aim of countering all manifestations of 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, in particular 
regarding issues raised in the present resolution; 

 22. Encourages States parties to the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination to ensure that their legislation 
incorporates the provisions of the Convention, including those of article 4; 

 23. Recalls the request of the Commission on Human Rights, in its resolution 
2005/5,5 that the Special Rapporteur continue to reflect on this issue, make relevant 
recommendations in his future reports and seek and take into account in this regard 
the views of Governments and non-governmental organizations; 

 24. Requests the Special Rapporteur to prepare, for submission to the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to the Human Rights Council at 
its twentieth session, reports on the implementation of the present resolution, in 
particular regarding paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 8, 13 and 14 thereof, based on the views 
collected in accordance with the request of the Commission on Human Rights, as 
recalled by the Assembly in paragraph 23 above; 

 25. Expresses its appreciation to those Governments that have provided 
information to the Special Rapporteur in the course of the preparation of his report 
to the General Assembly; 

 26. Also expresses its appreciation to civil society actors that contribute to 
the fight against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in 
an impartial and unbiased manner; 

 27. Stresses that such information is important for the sharing of experiences 
and best practices in the fight against extremist political parties, movements and 
groups, including neo-Nazis and skinhead groups, as well as extremist ideological 
movements; 



A/C.3/66/L.60  
 

11-57566 6 
 

 28. Encourages Governments and non-governmental organizations to 
cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur in the exercise of the tasks outlined in 
paragraph 23 above; 

 29. Encourages Governments, non-governmental organizations and relevant 
actors to disseminate, as widely as possible, information regarding the contents of 
and the principles outlined in the present resolution, including through the media, 
but not limited to it; 

 30. Decides to remain seized of the issue. 

 


