











































Microsoft Word - 0561390e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
21 November 2005

Original: English

05-61390 (E)    221105

*0561390*

Sixtieth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 69
Elimination of racism and racial discrimination

Jamaica:* revised draft resolution

Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and
the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 59/177 of 20 December 2004, in which it firmly
consolidated the global drive for the total elimination of racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and recognized the absolute
necessity and the imperative nature of the political will for the achievement of the
commitments undertaken in the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa, from 31 August
to 8 September 2001,1

Recalling also its resolution 58/160 of 22 December 2003, in which it decided
to place emphasis on the concrete implementation of the Durban Declaration and
Programme of Action as a solid foundation for a broad-based consensus for further
actions and initiatives towards the total elimination of the scourge of racism,

Recalling further its resolutions 57/195 of 18 December 2002, in which it
outlined the important roles and responsibilities of the various organs of the United
Nations and other stakeholders at the international, regional and national levels,
including, in particular, the Commission on Human Rights, and 56/266 of 27 March
2002, in which it endorsed the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action as
constituting a solid foundation for further action and initiatives towards the total
elimination of the scourge of racism,

* On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and
China.

1 See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I.



2

A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

Reiterating that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights
and have the potential to contribute constructively to the development and well-
being of their societies, and that any doctrine of racial superiority is scientifically
false, morally condemnable, socially unjust and dangerous and must be rejected,
together with theories that attempt to determine the existence of separate human
races,

Convinced that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance manifest themselves in a differentiated manner for women and girls and
may be among the factors leading to a deterioration in their living conditions,
poverty, violence, multiple forms of discrimination and the limitation or denial of
their human rights, and recognizing the need to integrate a gender perspective into
relevant policies, strategies and programmes of action against racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in order to address multiple
forms of discrimination,

Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2002/68 of 25 April
2002,2 2003/30 of 23 April 2003,3 2004/88 of 22 April 20044 and 2005/64 of
20 April 2005,5 by which the international community put into effect mechanisms
for the effective implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of
Action,

Underlining the primacy of political will, international cooperation and
adequate funding at the national, regional and international levels for the successful
implementation of the Durban Programme of Action,

Alarmed at the increase in racist violence and xenophobic ideas in many parts
of the world, in political circles, in the sphere of public opinion and in society at
large, inter alia, as a result of the resurgent activities of associations established on
the basis of racist and xenophobic platforms and charters, and the persistent use of
those platforms and charters to promote or incite racist ideologies,

Underlining the importance of urgently eliminating continuing and violent
trends involving racism and racial discrimination, and conscious that any form of
impunity for crimes motivated by racist and xenophobic attitudes plays a role in
weakening the rule of law and democracy, tends to encourage the recurrence of such
crimes and requires resolute action and cooperation for its eradication,

Welcoming the determination of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights to profile and increase the visibility of the struggle against racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and her intention to make
this a cross-cutting issue in the activities and programmes of her Office,

Taking note of the report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on
Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia
and related intolerance,6

__________________
2 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2002, Supplement No. 3 (E/2002/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
3 Ibid., 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), chap. II, sect. A.
4 Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), chap. II, sect. A.
5 Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 (E/2005/23), chap. II, sect. A.
6 A/60/283.



3

A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

Taking note also of the report of the Secretary-General,7

I
Basic general principles

1. Acknowledges that no derogation from the prohibition of racial
discrimination, genocide, the crime of apartheid or slavery is permitted, as defined
in the obligations under the relevant human rights instruments;

2. Expresses its profound concern about and its unequivocal condemnation
of all forms of racism and racial discrimination, including related acts of racially
motivated violence, xenophobia and intolerance, as well as propaganda activities
and organizations that attempt to justify or promote racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance in any form;

3. Expresses deep concern at recent attempts to establish hierarchies among
emerging and resurgent forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and
related intolerance, and urges States to adopt measures to address these scourges
with the same emphasis and vigour, with a view to preventing this practice and
protecting victims;

4. Stresses that States and international organizations have a responsibility
to ensure that measures taken in the struggle against terrorism do not discriminate in
purpose or effect on grounds of race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin,
and urges all States to rescind or refrain from all forms of racial profiling;

5. Recognizes that States should implement and enforce appropriate and
effective legislative, judicial, regulatory and administrative measures to prevent and
protect against acts of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance, thereby contributing to the prevention of human rights violations;

6. Emphasizes that it is the responsibility of States to adopt effective
measures to combat criminal acts motivated by racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance, including measures to ensure that such
motivations are considered an aggravating factor for the purposes of sentencing, to
prevent those crimes from going unpunished and to ensure the rule of law;

7. Urges all States to review and, where necessary, revise their immigration
laws, policies and practices so that they are free of racial discrimination and
compatible with their obligations under international human rights instruments;

8. Condemns the misuse of print, audio-visual and electronic media and
new communication technologies, including the Internet, to incite violence
motivated by racial hatred, and calls upon States to take all necessary measures to
combat this form of racism in accordance with the commitments that they have
undertaken under the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,1 in particular
paragraph 147 of the Programme of Action, in accordance with existing
international and regional standards of freedom of expression and taking all
necessary measures to guarantee the right to freedom of opinion and expression;

9. Encourages all States to include in their educational curricula and social
programmes at all levels, as appropriate, knowledge of and tolerance and respect for
foreign cultures, peoples and countries;

__________________
7 A/60/307.



4

A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

10. Stresses the responsibility of States to mainstream a gender perspective
in the design and development of prevention, education and protection measures
aimed at the eradication of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance at all levels, to ensure that they effectively target the distinct situations
of women and men;

II
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Racial Discrimination

11. Reaffirms that universal adherence to and full implementation of the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination8
are of paramount importance for the promotion of equality and non-discrimination
in the world;

12. Reiterates the call made by the World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, in paragraph 75 of the Durban
Programme of Action to achieve universal ratification of the Convention by 2005
and for all States to consider making the declaration envisaged under article 14 of
the Convention, and endorses the grave concern expressed by the Commission on
Human Rights in its resolution 2005/645 to the effect that, with one hundred and
seventy ratifications and only forty-six declarations, the deadline for universal
ratification decided by the Conference has, regrettably, not been realized;

13. Urges, in the above context, the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights to maintain and issue regular updates on its
website of a list of countries that have not yet ratified the Convention and to
encourage such countries to demonstrate their practical commitment to meet the
deadline for universal ratification as decided upon by the World Conference;

14. Expresses concern at the serious backlog caused by overdue reports
submitted to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, which
impedes the effectiveness of the Committee, and makes a strong appeal to all States
parties to the Convention to comply with their treaty obligations;

15. Invites States parties to the Convention to ratify the amendment to article
8 of the Convention, on the financing of the Committee, and calls for adequate
additional resources from the regular budget of the United Nations to enable the
Committee to discharge its mandate fully;

16. Welcomes the work of the Committee in applying the Convention to the
new and contemporary forms of racism and racial discrimination, bearing in mind
the need to identify the gaps in the convention for which complementary standards
are necessary;

17. Urges all States parties to the Convention to intensify their efforts to
implement the obligations that they have accepted under article 4 of the Convention,
with due regard to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights9 and
article 5 of the Convention;

__________________
8 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
9 Resolution 217 A (III).



5

A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

18. Notes that the Committee holds that the prohibition of the dissemination
of ideas based on racial superiority or racial hatred is compatible with the right to
freedom of opinion and expression as outlined in article 19 of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and in article 5 of the Convention;

19. Welcomes the emphasis placed by the Committee on the importance of
follow-up to the World Conference and the measures recommended to strengthen
the implementation of the Convention as well as the functioning of the
Committee;10

III
Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action

20. Acknowledges that the outcome of the World Conference against Racism,
Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance is on an equal footing
with the outcomes of all the major United Nations conferences, summits and special
sessions in the human rights and social fields;

21. Also acknowledges that the World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, which was the third world
conference against racism, was significantly different from the previous two
conferences, as evidenced by the inclusion in its title of two important components
relating to contemporary forms of racism, namely, xenophobia and related
intolerance;

22. Emphasizes that the basic responsibility for effectively combating
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance lies with States,
and to this end stresses that States have the primary responsibility to ensure full and
effective implementation of all commitments and recommendations contained in the
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action;

23. Also emphasizes the fundamental and complementary role of national
human rights institutions, regional bodies or centres and civil society, working
jointly with States towards the achievement of the objectives of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action;

24. Welcomes the steps taken by numerous Governments, in particular the
elaboration and implementation of national actions plans to combat racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and steps taken by national
human rights institutions and non-governmental organizations, towards the full
implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, and affirms
this trend as a demonstration of commitment for the elimination of all scourges of
racism at the national level;

25. Calls upon all States that have not yet elaborated their national action
plans on the combating of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance to comply with their commitments undertaken at the Conference;

26. Also calls upon all States to formulate and implement without delay, at
the national, regional and international levels, policies and plans of action to combat

__________________
10 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 18

(A/57/18), chap. XI.



6

A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, including their
gender-based manifestations;

27. Urges States to support the activities of existing regional bodies or
centres that combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance in their respective regions, and recommends the establishment of such
bodies in all regions where they do not exist;

28. Recognizes the fundamental role of civil society in the fight against
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, in particular in
assisting States to develop regulations and strategies, in taking measures and action
against such forms of discrimination and through follow-up implementation;

29. Decides that the General Assembly, through its role in policy
formulation, the Economic and Social Council, through its role in overall guidance
and coordination, in accordance with their respective roles under the Charter of the
United Nations and Assembly resolution 50/227 of 24 May 1996, and the
Commission on Human Rights shall constitute a three-tiered intergovernmental
process for the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action;

30. Stresses and reaffirms its role as the highest intergovernmental
mechanism for the formulation and appraisal of policy on matters related to the
economic, social and related fields, in accordance with Chapter IX of the Charter of
the United Nations, including in the comprehensive implementation of and follow-
up to the goals and targets set at all the major United Nations conferences, summits
and special sessions;

31. Welcomes the second meeting of the group of independent eminent
experts, held in Geneva from 21 to 23 February 2005, in particular its programme of
work as requested by the General Assembly in its resolution 59/177;

32. Decides to convene a five-year review of implementation of the Durban
Declaration and Plan of Action by no later than 2007, and to this end calls upon the
Commission on Human Rights to act as a preparatory committee for this event, to
formulate a concrete plan for the review and to provide regular updates and reports
to both the Secretary-General and the General Assembly;

33. Reaffirms that the Commission on Human Rights, as a functional
commission of the Economic and Social Council, shall have a central role in the
monitoring of the implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of
Action within the United Nations system and in advising the Council thereon;

34. Expresses its appreciation for the continuing work in follow-up to the
World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related
Intolerance, and in this regard endorses the outcomes of the third session of the
Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action, while taking note of the outcome of the
fourth session of the Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent, and
calls for their implementation by all stakeholders;

35. Welcomes the convening of the high-level seminar in January 2006 under
the auspices of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights as set out in Commission on Human Rights resolution 2005/64, and
encourages all States to participate in this seminar at the appropriate level;



7

A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

36. Acknowledges the centrality of resource mobilization, effective global
partnership and international cooperation in the context of paragraphs 157 and 158
of the Durban Programme of Action for the successful realization of commitments
undertaken at the World Conference, and to this end emphasizes the central role to
be played by the group of independent eminent experts on the implementation of the
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action in mobilizing the necessary political
will required for the successful implementation of the Declaration and Programme
of Action;

37. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary resources for the
effective fulfilment of the mandates of the Intergovernmental Working Group on the
Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the
Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent and the group of
independent eminent experts on the implementation of the Durban Declaration and
Programme of Action;

38. Expresses its concern at the increasing incidence of racism in various
sporting events, while noting with appreciation the efforts made by some governing
bodies of the various sporting codes to combat racism, and in this regard invites all
international sporting bodies to promote, through their national, regional and
international federations, a world of sport free from racism and racial
discrimination;

39. Invites, in this context, the Fédération internationale de football
association, in connection with the 2006 and 2010 soccer World Cup tournaments to
be held in Germany and in South Africa, respectively, to consider introducing a
visible theme on non-racism in football, and requests the Secretary-General to bring
this invitation to the attention of the Fédération and to bring the issue of racism in
sports to the attention of other relevant international sporting bodies;

IV
Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on
contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia
and related intolerance and follow-up to his visits

40. Expresses its full support and appreciation for the work of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and encourages its
continuation;

41. Reiterates its call to all Member States, intergovernmental organizations,
relevant organizations of the United Nations system and non-governmental
organizations to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur, and calls upon States
to consider responding favourably to his requests for visits so as to enable him to
fulfil his mandate fully and effectively;

42. Recognizes with deep concern the increase in various parts of the world
of racial and violent movements based on racism and discriminatory ideas directed
against communities of people of African descent, Asian and Arab descent,
indigenous people and Christian, Jewish, Muslim and various religious
communities;

43. Recognizes with deep concern the increase in anti-Semitism,
Christianophobia and Islamaphobia in various parts of the world, as well as the



8

A/C.3/60/L.63/Rev.1

emergence of racial and violent movements based on racism and discriminatory
ideas directed against Arab, Christian, Jewish and Muslim communities,
communities of people of African descent and communities of people of Asian
descent;

44. Encourages closer collaboration between the Special Rapporteur and the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in particular
the Anti-Discrimination Unit;

45. Urges the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to
provide States, at their request, with advisory services and technical assistance to
enable them to implement fully the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur;

46. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with
all the necessary human and financial assistance to carry out his mandate efficiently,
effectively and expeditiously and to enable him to submit an interim report to the
General Assembly at its sixty-first session;

47. Takes note of the recommendations contained in the interim report of the
Special Rapporteur, and urges Member States and other relevant stakeholders to
consider implementing these recommendations;

48. Requests the Special Rapporteur to give particular attention to the
resurgence of racism, racial discrimination and xenophobia against national, ethnic,
cultural and religious minorities, immigrant populations, asylum-seekers and
refugees, largely through the erosion of their economic and social rights (housing,
education, health) and the gradual loss of protection systems under the relevant
international instruments, and to make recommendations thereon to Member States;

49. Invites Member States to demonstrate greater commitment to fighting
racism in sport by conducting educational and awareness-raising activities and by
very firmly condemning the perpetrators of racist incidents, in cooperation with
national and international sports organizations;

V
General

50. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the information
summarized in his report7 is accurate and balanced by seeking the views of affected
Member States, and in this regard strongly rejects the inclusion of views rather than
activities of non-governmental organizations such as those contained in paragraph
67 of his report;

51. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its sixty-first
session;

52. Decides to remain seized of this important matter at its sixty-first session
under the item entitled “Elimination of racism and racial discrimination”.


