






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.2/65/L.44

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
12 November 2010 
 
Original: English 

 

10-63506 (E)    151110     
*1063506*   

Sixty-fifth session 
Second Committee 
Agenda item 18 (a) 
Macroeconomic policy questions: international trade 
and development 

 
 
 

  Yemen:* draft resolution 
 
 

  International trade and development 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 56/178 of 21 December 2001, 57/235 of 20 December 
2002, 58/197 of 23 December 2003, 59/221 of 22 December 2004, 60/184 of 
22 December 2005, 61/186 of 20 December 2006, 62/184 of 19 December 2007, 
63/203 of 19 December 2008 and 64/188 of 21 December 2009 on international 
trade and development, 

 Recalling also the United Nations Millennium Declaration1, as well as the 
outcomes of the International Conference on Financing for Development,2 the 
World Summit on Sustainable Development,3 the 2005 World Summit Outcome,4 
and the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development,5 

 Recalling further the Outcome of the United Nations Conference on the World 
Financial and Economic Crisis and its Impact on Development,6 

__________________ 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and 
China. 

 1  See resolution 55/2. 
 2  Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 

18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, 
annex. 

 3  Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and 
corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex, and resolution 2, annex. 

 4  See resolution 60/1. 
 5  Resolution 63/239, annex. 
 6  Resolution 63/303, annex. 



A/C.2/65/L.44  
 

10-63506 2 
 

 Recalling the High-level Plenary Meeting of the sixty-fifth session of the 
General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals and its outcome 
document,7 

 Taking note of the seventh session of the World Trade Organization Ministerial 
Conference, held in Geneva from 30 November to 2 December 2009 under the 
general theme “The World Trade Organization, the Multilateral Trading System and 
the Current Global Economic Environment”, 

 Reaffirming the value of multilateralism to the global trading system and the 
commitment to achieving a universal, rule-based, open, non-discriminatory and 
equitable multilateral trading system that contributes to growth, sustainable 
development and employment generation in all sectors, and emphasizing that 
bilateral and regional trading arrangements should contribute to the goals of the 
multilateral trading system,  

 Reiterating that development concerns form an integral part of the Doha 
Development Agenda, which places the needs and interests of developing and least 
developed countries at the heart of the Doha Work Programme,8  

 Noting that agriculture lags behind the manufacturing sector in the process of 
the establishment of multilateral disciplines and in the reduction of tariff and 
non-tariff barriers and that, since most of the world’s poor make their living from 
agriculture, the livelihood and standards of living of many of them are seriously 
jeopardized by the serious distortions in production and trade in agricultural 
products caused by the high levels of export subsidies, trade-distorting domestic 
support and protectionism by many developed countries, 

 1. Takes note of the report of the Trade and Development Board9 and the 
report of the Secretary-General;10  

 2. Reaffirms that international trade can be an engine for development and 
sustained economic growth, underlines the need to fully harness its potential in that 
regard, and stresses the importance of upholding a universal, rule-based, open, 
non-discriminatory and equitable multilateral trading system that contributes to 
growth, sustainable development and employment, particularly in developing 
countries; 

 3. Notes with deep concern that the ongoing world financial and economic 
crisis is still severely impacting international trade, particularly affecting developing 
countries, and expresses concern over the fragile and uneven state of the recovery of 
trade flows; 

 4. Stresses the need to resist all protectionist measures and tendencies, 
especially those affecting developing countries, including tariff, non-tariff and other 
barriers to trade, in particular agricultural subsidies, and to rectify any such 
measures already taken, recognizes the right of countries to fully utilize their policy 
space, consistent with World Trade Organization commitments, and calls upon the 
World Trade Organization and other relevant bodies, including the United Nations 

__________________ 

 7  See resolution 65/1. 
 8  A/C.2/56/7, annex. 
 9  A/65/15 (Parts I-IV) and corrigendum. For the final text, see Official Records of the General 

Assembly, Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 15 (A/65/15). 
 10  A/65/211. 



 A/C.2/65/L.44
 

3 10-63506 
 

Conference on Trade and Development, to continue monitoring protectionist 
measures and assess their impact on developing countries; 

 5. Encourages Member States to refrain from adopting any measures or 
restrictions related to trade and transit that affect the access by developing countries 
to medicines, especially generic medicines, and medical equipment; 

 6. Expresses serious concern at the lack of progress in the negotiations of 
the World Trade Organization Doha Round, reiterates the call on all members of the 
World Trade Organization, in particular developed members to demonstrate the 
flexibility and political will necessary to break the current impasse in the 
negotiations, and calls for an early, balanced, ambitious and development-oriented 
outcome of the Doha Development Agenda of multilateral trade negotiations, in 
keeping with the development mandate of the Doha Ministerial Declaration,11 the 
decision of 1 August 2004 of the General Council of the World Trade 
Organization12 and the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration,13 which places 
development at the heart of the multilateral trading system;  

 7. Stresses that in order for the Doha Round to be concluded satisfactorily, 
the negotiations should strengthen the rules and disciplines in the area of 
agriculture, eliminate agricultural export subsidies, substantially reduce the 
domestic measures of support by developed countries and promote enhanced market 
access to developed country markets, in a balanced and development-oriented 
outcome, while adhering to the development mandate of the Doha Ministerial 
Declaration, the decision of 1 August 2004 of the General Council of the World 
Trade Organization and the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration;  

 8. Also stresses the need to make substantial progress in the negotiations of 
the World Trade Organization complying with the mandate of the Doha 
Development Agenda, covering all areas under the single undertaking, such as 
agriculture, non-agricultural market access, services, rules and trade facilitation, as 
well as in the negotiations on the Dispute Settlement Understanding also, to ensure 
that the development concerns of developing countries are fully reflected in any 
outcome, consistent with the development mandate of the Doha Ministerial 
Declaration, the decision of 1 August 2004 of the General Council of the World 
Trade Organization and the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration; 

 9. Reiterates its call for completing the review work on special and 
differential treatment provisions, with a view to strengthening them and making 
them more precise, effective and operational, in accordance with paragraph 44 of 
the Doha Ministerial Declaration and paragraph 37 of the Hong Kong Ministerial 
Declaration;  

 10. Calls for finding solutions to the Implementation-Related Issues and 
Concerns as set out in the relevant decisions of the Doha Ministerial Conference;  

__________________ 

 11  See A/C.2/56/7, annex. 
 12  World Trade Organization, document WT/L/579. Available from http://docsonline.wto.org. 
 13  World Trade Organization, document WT/MIN(05)/DEC. Available from http://docsonline.wto.org. 



A/C.2/65/L.44  
 

10-63506 4 
 

 11. Reiterates its call for accelerating work on the development-related 
mandate concerning the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property 
Rights (TRIPS Agreement)14 in the Doha Ministerial Declaration, especially on the 
issue of making intellectual property rules fully support the objectives of the 
Convention on Biological Diversity15 and issues related to the full implementation 
of the Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health16 affecting many 
developing countries, including the least developed countries, especially those 
issues arising from HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other diseases;  

 12. Reaffirms the necessity of promoting the transfer and dissemination of 
technology and access to knowledge for the benefit of developing countries, taking 
fully into account the priorities and special needs of developing countries, as well as 
the World Intellectual Property Organization Development Agenda;  

 13. Reaffirms the commitments made at the Fourth Ministerial Conference of 
the World Trade Organization related to the least developed countries,11 calls upon 
developed countries that have not already done so to provide immediate, 
predictable, duty-free and quota-free market access on a lasting basis for all 
products originating from all least developed countries, and welcomes the 
convening of the Fourth Conference on the Least Developed Countries in Istanbul in 
2011;  

 14. Calls for the full implementation of the Marrakech Ministerial Decision 
on measures concerning the possible negative effects of the reform programme on 
least developed and net food-importing developing countries by providing them 
with technical and financial assistance in order to meet their food needs; 

 15. Reaffirms the commitment to actively pursue the work programme of the 
World Trade Organization with respect to addressing the trade-related issues and 
concerns affecting the fuller integration of countries with small, vulnerable 
economies into the multilateral trading system in a manner commensurate with their 
special circumstances and in support of their efforts towards sustainable 
development, in accordance with paragraph 35 of the Doha Ministerial Declaration 
and paragraph 21 of the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration;  

 16. Also reaffirms its full commitment to urgently addressing the special 
development needs of and challenges faced by the landlocked developing countries, 
and calls for the full, timely and effective implementation of the Almaty Programme 
of Action,17 as contained in the Declaration on the Midterm Review of the Almaty 
Programme of Action; 

 17. Expresses its deep concern at the imposition of laws and other forms of 
coercive economic measures, including unilateral sanctions, against developing 

__________________ 

 14  See Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade 
Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT secretariat publication, Sales 
No. GATT/1994-7). 

 15  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619. 
 16  World Trade Organization, document WT/MIN(01) DEC/2. Available from 

http://docsonline.wto.org. 
 17  Report of the International Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and Transit Developing 

Countries and Donor Countries and International Financial and Development Institutions on 
Transit Transport Cooperation, Almaty, Kazakhstan, 28 and 29 August 2003 (A/CONF.202/3), 
annex I. 



 A/C.2/65/L.44
 

5 10-63506 
 

countries, which undermine international law and the rules of the World Trade 
Organization and also severely threaten freedom of trade and investment;  

 18. Calls for facilitating the accession of all developing countries that apply 
for membership in the World Trade Organization, in particular the least developed 
countries, including countries emerging from conflict that are least developed 
countries, bearing in mind paragraph 21 of resolution 55/182 of 20 December 2000 
and subsequent developments, and also calls for the effective and faithful 
application of the World Trade Organization guidelines on accession by the least 
developed countries;  

 19. Recognizes the urgent need to mobilize additional, non-conditional and 
predictable funding for Aid for Trade, including through the Enhanced Integrated 
Framework for Trade-related Technical Assistance to Least Developed Countries, to 
help strengthen and enhance the trade capacity and international competitiveness of 
developing countries so as to ensure equitable benefits for them from increased 
trading opportunities and to foster their economic growth, and notes that the Third 
Global Review of Aid for Trade is to be held in Geneva in July 2011; 

 20. Recognizes that South-South trade should be further strengthened, 
including through market access between developing countries, and in this regard, 
takes note of the Ministerial Decision on Modalities of the São Paulo Round of the 
Global System of Trade Preferences among Developing Countries, adopted on 
2 December 2009 in Geneva, and looks forward to an early conclusion of the 
negotiations on the São Paulo Round; 

 21. Reiterates the important role of the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and Development as the focal point within the United Nations system for the 
integrated treatment of trade and development and interrelated issues in the areas of 
finance, technology, investment and sustainable development, and calls upon the 
international community to work towards the strengthening of the Conference, to 
enable it to enhance its contribution in its three major pillars, namely, consensus-
building, research and policy analysis, and technical assistance, especially through 
increased core resources;  

 22. Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in 
accordance with its mandate, to monitor and assess the evolution of the international 
trading system, to undertake policy analysis with a view to fostering greater 
coherence between the multilateral trading system and the international financial 
system, from a development perspective, and to support developing countries in 
building national capacities, including through technical assistance activities; 

 23. Reaffirms the fundamental role that competition law and policy can play 
for sound economic development, in accordance with national legislation, welcomes 
the convening of the sixth United Nations Conference to Review all Aspects of the 
Set of Multilaterally Agreed Equitable Principles and Rules for the Control of 
Restrictive Business Practices, held in Geneva from 8 to 12 November 2010, and 
takes note of its final report; 

 24. Urges donors to provide the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development with the increased resources necessary to deliver effective and 
demand-driven assistance to developing countries, as well as to enhance their 
contributions to the trust funds of the Integrated Framework for Trade-related 



A/C.2/65/L.44  
 

10-63506 6 
 

Technical Assistance to Least Developed Countries and the Joint Integrated 
Technical Assistance Programme;  

 25. Requests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the secretariat of 
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to submit to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session a report on the implementation of the present 
resolution and developments in the multilateral trading system, under the sub-item 
entitled “International trade and development” of the item entitled “Macroeconomic 
policy questions”;  

 26. Also requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to 
the Director-General of the World Trade Organization for circulation as a document 
of the World Trade Organization.  

 


