











































Microsoft Word - 0559318e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/60/L.60

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
8 November 2005

Original: English

05-59318 (E)    091105

*0559318*

Sixtieth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 69 (a)
Elimination of racism and racial discrimination:
elimination of racism and racial discrimination

Belarus, Cuba and Russian Federation: draft resolution

Inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to fuelling
contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia
and related intolerance

The General Assembly,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights,1 the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination3
and other relevant human rights instruments,

Recalling the provisions of Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2004/16
of 16 April 20044 and 2005/5 of 14 April 2005,5

Recalling also the Charter of the Nuremberg Tribunal and the Judgement of
the Tribunal, which recognized the Waffen SS organization and all its integral parts
as criminal and declared it responsible for many war crimes and crimes against
humanity,

Recalling further the relevant provisions of the Durban Declaration and
Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance on 8 September 2001,6 in
particular paragraph 2 of the Declaration and paragraph 86 of the Programme of
Action,

__________________
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
4 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23),

chap. I, sect. A.
5 Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 (E/2005/23), chap. I, sect. A.
6 See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I.



2

A/C.3/60/L.60

Recalling equally the study undertaken by the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,7 and taking note of his report,

Alarmed, in this regard, at the spread in many parts of the world of various
extremist political parties, movements and groups, including neo-Nazis and
skinhead groups,

1. Reaffirms the provision of the Durban Declaration,6 in which States
condemned the persistence and resurgence of neo-Nazism, neo-Fascism and violent
nationalist prejudice and stated that these phenomena could never be justified in any
instance or in any circumstances;

2. Expresses deep concern over the glorification of the Nazi movement and
former members of the Waffen SS organization, including by erecting monuments
and memorials as well as holding public demonstrations in the name of the
glorification of the Nazi past, the Nazi movement and neo-Nazism;

3. Notes with concern the increase in the number of racist incidents in
several countries and the rise of skinhead groups, which have been responsible for
many of these incidents, as observed by the Special Rapporteur of the Commission
on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance;

4. Reaffirms that such acts may be qualified to fall within the scope of
activities described in article 4 of the International Convention on the Elimination of
All Forms of Racial Discrimination,3 and that they represent a clear and manifest
abuse of the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association, as well as
the rights to freedom of opinion and expression within the meaning of these rights
as guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and the International Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination;

5. Stresses that the practices described above do injustice to the memory of
the countless victims of crimes against humanity committed in the Second World
War, in particular those committed by the SS organization, and poison the minds of
young people, in particular in the year of the sixtieth anniversary of victory in the
Second World War and the liberation of Auschwitz and other concentration camps,
and that these practices are incompatible with the obligations of States Members of
the United Nations under its Charter and are incompatible with the goals and
principles of the Organization;

6. Also stresses that such practices fuel contemporary forms of racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and contribute to the
spread and multiplication of various extremist political parties, movements and
groups, including neo-Nazis and skinhead groups;

7. Emphasizes the need to take the necessary measures to put an end to the
practices described above, and calls upon States to take more effective measures to
combat these phenomena and the extremist movements, which pose a real threat to
democratic values;

__________________
7 E/CN.4/2005/18 and Add.1-6.



3

A/C.3/60/L.60

8. Reaffirms that according to article 4 of the International Convention on
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination States parties to this
instrument are, inter alia, under the obligation:

(a) To condemn all propaganda and all organizations that are based on ideas
of racial superiority or that attempt to justify or promote racial hatred and
discrimination in any form;

(b) To undertake to adopt immediate and positive measures designed to
eradicate all incitement to, or acts of, such discrimination with due regard to the
principles embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the rights
expressly set forth in article 5 of the Convention;

(c) To declare as an offence punishable by law all dissemination of ideas
based on racial superiority or hatred, incitement to racial discrimination, as well as
all acts of violence or incitement to such acts against any race or group of persons of
another colour or ethnic origin, and also the provision of any assistance to racist
activities, including the financing thereof;

(d) To declare illegal and prohibit organizations, and also organized and all
other propaganda activities, that promote and incite racial discrimination, and to
recognize participation in such organizations or activities as an offence punishable
by law;

(e) To prohibit public authorities or public institutions, national or local,
from promoting or inciting racial discrimination;

9. Recalls the request of the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution
2005/5 that the Special Rapporteur continue to reflect on this issue and make
relevant recommendations in his report to the Commission at its sixty-second
session, and seek and take into account in this regard the views of Governments and
non-governmental organizations;

10. Invites Governments and non-governmental organizations to cooperate
fully with the Special Rapporteur in the exercise of the aforementioned task;

11. Decides to remain seized of the issue.


