












































United Nations A/C.1/58/L.47

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
15 October 2003

Original: English

03-56256 (E)    171003

*0356256*

Fifty-eighth session
First Committee
Agenda item 73 (t)
General and complete disarmament: nuclear disarmament

Algeria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ghana, Guinea, Haiti,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Panama, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand, Tonga,
Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe:
draft resolution

Nuclear disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 49/75 E of 15 December 1994 on a step-by-step
reduction of the nuclear threat, and its resolutions 50/70 P of 12 December 1995,
51/45 O of 10 December 1996, 52/38 L of 9 December 1997, 53/77 X of 4
December 1998, 54/54 P of 1 December 1999, 55/33 T of 20 November 2000, 56/24
R of 29 November 2001 and 57/79 of 22 November 2002 on nuclear disarmament,

Reaffirming the commitment of the international community to the goal of the
total elimination of nuclear weapons and the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free
world,

Bearing in mind that the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and
on Their Destruction of 19721 and the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction of 19932 have already established legal regimes on the complete
prohibition of biological and chemical weapons, respectively, and determined to
achieve a nuclear weapons convention on the prohibition of the development,

__________________
1 Resolution 2826 (XXVI), annex.
2 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27

(A/47/27), appendix I.



2

A/C.1/58/L.47

testing, production, stockpiling, loan transfer, use and threat of use of nuclear
weapons and on their destruction, and to conclude such an international convention
at an early date,

Recognizing that there now exist conditions for the establishment of a world
free of nuclear weapons, and stressing the need to take concrete practical steps
towards achieving this goal,

Bearing in mind paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly,3 the first special session devoted to disarmament,
calling for the urgent negotiation of agreements for the cessation of the qualitative
improvement and development of nuclear-weapon systems, and for a comprehensive
and phased programme with agreed time frames, wherever feasible, for the
progressive and balanced reduction of nuclear weapons and their means of delivery,
leading to their ultimate and complete elimination at the earliest possible time,

Reaffirming the conviction of the States parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons4 that the Treaty is a cornerstone of nuclear non-
proliferation and nuclear disarmament and the importance of the decision on
strengthening the review process for the Treaty,5 the decision on principles and
objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament,5 the decision on the
extension of the Treaty5 and the resolution on the Middle East,5 adopted by the 1995
Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,

Stressing the importance of the thirteen steps for the systematic and
progressive efforts to achieve the objective of nuclear disarmament leading to the
total elimination of these weapons, as agreed to by the States parties in the Final
Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;6

Reiterating the highest priority accorded to nuclear disarmament in the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly and by the
international community,

Noting with appreciation the entry into force of the Treaty on the Reduction
and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (START I),7 to which Belarus,
Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the United States of America are
States parties,

Reiterating its call for an early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty,8

Noting with appreciation the entry into force of the Treaty on Strategic
Offensive Reductions (“the Moscow Treaty”) by the United States of America and

__________________
3 Resolution S-10/2.
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.
5 See 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation

of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex.
6 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)).
7 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 16: 1991 (United Nations publication, Sales

No. E.92.IX.1), appendix II.
8 See resolution 50/245.



3

A/C.1/58/L.47

the Russian Federation9 as a significant step towards reducing their deployed
strategic nuclear weapons, while calling for further irreversible deep cuts in their
nuclear arsenals,

Noting with appreciation also the unilateral measures taken by the nuclear-
weapon States for nuclear arms limitation, and encouraging them to take further
such measures,

Recognizing the complementarity of bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral
negotiations on nuclear disarmament, and that bilateral negotiations can never
replace multilateral negotiations in this respect,

Noting the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure non-
nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and the
multilateral efforts in the Conference on Disarmament to reach agreement on such
an international convention at an early date,

Recalling the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued on 8 July 1996,10 and
welcoming the unanimous reaffirmation by all Judges of the Court that there exists
an obligation for all States to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion
negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and
effective international control,

Mindful of paragraph 74 and other relevant recommendations in the Final
Document of the Thirteenth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-
Aligned Countries, held at Kuala Lumpur from 20 to 25 February 2003,11 calling
upon the Conference on Disarmament to establish, as soon as possible and as the
highest priority, an ad hoc committee on nuclear disarmament and to commence
negotiations on a phased programme for the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons with a specified framework of time,

Recalling paragraph 11 of the Declaration of the Meeting of the Ministers of
Foreign Affairs of the Non-Aligned Movement, held in New York on 26 September
2003,

Bearing in mind the principles and guidelines on the establishment of nuclear-
weapon-free zones, adopted by the Disarmament Commission at its substantive
session of 1999,12

Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration,13 in which heads of
State and Government resolve to strive for the elimination of weapons of mass
destruction, in particular nuclear weapons, and to keep all options open for
achieving this aim, including the possibility of convening an international
conference to identify ways of eliminating nuclear dangers,

__________________
9 See CD/1674.

10 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion,
I.C.J. Reports 1996, p. 226.

11 A/57/759-S/2003/332, annex I.
12 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/54/42),

annex I.
13 See resolution 55/2.



4

A/C.1/58/L.47

Reaffirming that, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, States
should refrain from the use or the threat of use of nuclear weapons in settling their
disputes in international relations,

Seized of the danger of the use of weapons of mass destruction, particularly
nuclear weapons, in terrorist acts and the urgent need for concerted international
efforts to control and overcome it,

1. Recognizes that, in view of recent political developments, the time is now
opportune for all the nuclear-weapon States to take effective disarmament measures
with a view to achieving the elimination of these weapons;

2. Reaffirms that nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation are
substantively interrelated and mutually reinforcing, that the two processes must go
hand in hand and that there is a genuine need for a systematic and progressive
process of nuclear disarmament;

3. Welcomes and encourages the efforts to establish new nuclear-weapon-
free zones in different parts of the world on the basis of agreements or arrangements
freely arrived at among the States of the regions concerned, which is an effective
measure for limiting the further spread of nuclear weapons geographically and
contributes to the cause of nuclear disarmament;

4. Recognizes that there is a genuine need to diminish the role of nuclear
weapons in strategic doctrines and security policies to minimize the risk that these
weapons will ever be used and to facilitate the process of their total elimination;

5. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to stop immediately the qualitative
improvement, development, production and stockpiling of nuclear warheads and
their delivery systems;

6. Also urges the nuclear-weapon States, as an interim measure, to de-alert
and deactivate immediately their nuclear weapons and to take other concrete
measures to reduce further the operational status of their nuclear-weapon systems;

7. Reiterates its call upon the nuclear-weapon States to undertake the step-
by-step reduction of the nuclear threat and to carry out effective nuclear
disarmament measures with a view to achieving the total elimination of these
weapons;

8. Calls upon the nuclear-weapon States, pending the achievement of the
total elimination of nuclear weapons, to agree on an internationally and legally
binding instrument on a joint undertaking not to be the first to use nuclear weapons,
and calls upon all States to conclude an internationally and legally binding
instrument on security assurances of non-use and non-threat of use of nuclear
weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States;

9. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to commence plurilateral negotiations
among themselves at an appropriate stage on further deep reductions of nuclear
weapons as an effective measure of nuclear disarmament;

10. Underlines the importance of applying the principle of irreversibility to
the process of nuclear disarmament, nuclear and other related arms control and
reduction measures;



5

A/C.1/58/L.47

11. Underscores the importance of the unequivocal undertaking by the
nuclear-weapon States, in the Final Document of the Review Conference of the
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,6 held in New
York from 24 March to 19 May 2000, to accomplish the total elimination of their
nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear disarmament, to which all States parties are
committed under article VI of the Treaty,14 and the reaffirmation by the States
parties that the total elimination of nuclear weapons is the only absolute guarantee
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons;15

12. Calls for the full and effective implementation of the thirteen steps for
nuclear disarmament, contained in the Final Document of the 2000 Review
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons;6

13. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to carry out further reductions of non-
strategic nuclear weapons, based on unilateral initiatives and as an integral part of
the nuclear arms reduction and disarmament process;

14. Calls for the immediate commencement of negotiations in the
Conference on Disarmament on a non-discriminatory, multilateral and
internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile
material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices on the basis of the
report of the Special Coordinator16 and the mandate contained therein;

15. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to agree on a programme of work
which includes the immediate commencement of negotiations on such a treaty with
a view to their conclusion within five years;

16. Calls for the conclusion of an international legal instrument or
instruments on adequate security assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States;

17. Also calls for the early entry into force and strict observance of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty;8

18. Expresses its regret that the Conference on Disarmament was unable to
establish an ad hoc committee on nuclear disarmament at its 2003 session, as called
for in General Assembly resolution 57/79;

19. Reiterates its call upon the Conference on Disarmament to establish, on a
priority basis, an ad hoc committee to deal with nuclear disarmament early in 2004
and to commence negotiations on a phased programme of nuclear disarmament
leading to the eventual total elimination of nuclear weapons;

20. Calls for the convening of an international conference on nuclear
disarmament in all its aspects at an early date to identify and deal with concrete
measures of nuclear disarmament;

21. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
fifty-ninth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;

__________________
14 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28), part I, section entitled “Article VI and
eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15:6.

15 Ibid., section entitled “Article VII and the security of non-nuclear-weapon States”, para. 2.
16 CD/1299.



6

A/C.1/58/L.47

22. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session the
item entitled “Nuclear disarmament”.


