






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
17 November 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-62115 (E)    201106     
*0662115* 

Sixty-first session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 65 (b) 
Elimination of racism and racial discrimination:  
comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to  
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action 

 
 
 

  Russian Federation and South Africa:* revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and  
the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to  
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 60/144 of 16 December 2005, in which it reiterated its 
firm commitment to continue its global efforts towards the total elimination of the 
scourges of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and 
towards the effective and comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,  

 Recalling also its resolution 59/177 of 20 December 2004, in which it firmly 
consolidated the global drive for the total elimination of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and recognized the absolute 
necessity and the imperative nature of the political will for the achievement of the 
commitments undertaken in the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action 
adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, 
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa, from 31 August 
to 8 September 2001,1 

 Recalling further its resolution 58/160 of 22 December 2003, in which it 
decided to place emphasis on the concrete implementation of the Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action as a solid foundation for a broad-based 
consensus for further actions and initiatives towards the total elimination of the 
scourge of racism,  

__________________ 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77  
and China, 

 1  See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I. 



A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1  
 

06-62115 2 
 

 Recalling its resolution 57/195 of 18 December 2002, in which it outlined the 
important roles and responsibilities of the various organs of the United Nations and 
other stakeholders at the international, regional and national levels, including, in 
particular, the Commission on Human Rights, and its resolution 56/266 of 27 March 
2002, in which it endorsed the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action as 
constituting a solid foundation for further action and initiatives towards the total 
elimination of the scourge of racism,  

 Reiterating that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights 
and have the potential to contribute constructively to the development and well-
being of their societies, and that any doctrine of racial superiority is scientifically 
false, morally condemnable, socially unjust and dangerous and must be rejected, 
together with theories that attempt to determine the existence of separate human 
races,  

 Convinced that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance manifest themselves in a differentiated manner for women and girls and 
may be among the factors leading to a deterioration in their living conditions, 
poverty, violence, multiple forms of discrimination and the limitation or denial of 
their human rights, and recognizing the need to integrate a gender perspective into 
relevant policies, strategies and programmes of action against racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in order to address multiple 
forms of discrimination,  

 Recalling Human Rights Council resolution 1/5 of 30 June 2006,2  

 Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2002/68 of 25 April 
2002,3 2003/30 of 23 April 2003,4 2004/88 of 22 April 20045 and 2005/64 of 
20 April 2005,6 by which the international community put into effect mechanisms 
for the effective implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action,  

 Recalling the conclusions and recommendations agreed upon by the 
Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action at its fourth session, held in Geneva from 16 
to 27 January 2006,7 

 Underlining the primacy of political will, international cooperation and 
adequate funding at the national, regional and international levels for the successful 
implementation of the Durban Programme of Action,  

 Alarmed at the increase in racist violence and xenophobic ideas in many parts 
of the world, in political circles, in the sphere of public opinion and in society at 
large, inter alia, as a result of the resurgent activities of associations established on 
the basis of racist and xenophobic platforms and charters, and the persistent use of 
those platforms and charters to promote or incite racist ideologies, 

__________________ 

 2  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/61/53), 
part one, chap. II.A, resolution 1/5. 

 3  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2002, Supplement No. 3 (E/2002/23), 
chap. II, sect. A. 

 4  Ibid., 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), chap. II, sect. A. 
 5  Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), chap. II, sect. A. 
 6  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/2005/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A. 
 7  See E/CN.4/2006/18, sect. VI. 



 A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1

 

3 06-62115 
 

 Underlining the importance of urgently eliminating continuing and violent 
trends involving racism and racial discrimination, and conscious that any form of 
impunity for crimes motivated by racist and xenophobic attitudes plays a role in 
weakening the rule of law and democracy, tends to encourage the recurrence of such 
crimes and requires resolute action and cooperation for its eradication,  

 Welcoming the determination of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights to profile and increase the visibility of the struggle against racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and her intention to make 
this a cross-cutting issue in the activities and programmes of her Office,  

 Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,8 the interim report of the 
Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on contemporary forms of racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance9 and Human Rights 
Council decision 1/102 of 30 June 2006, 10 
 

  I 
Basic general principles 
 

 1. Acknowledges that no derogation from the prohibition of racial 
discrimination, genocide, the crime of apartheid or slavery is permitted, as defined 
in the obligations under the relevant human rights instruments; 

 2. Expresses its profound concern about and its unequivocal condemnation 
of all forms of racism and racial discrimination, including related acts of racially 
motivated violence, xenophobia and intolerance, as well as propaganda activities 
and organizations that attempt to justify or promote racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance in any form;  

 3. Expresses deep concern at recent attempts to establish hierarchies among 
emerging and resurgent forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
related intolerance, and urges States to adopt measures to address these scourges 
with the same emphasis and vigour with a view to preventing this practice and 
protecting victims; 

 4. Stresses that States and international organizations have a responsibility 
to ensure that measures taken in the struggle against terrorism do not discriminate in 
purpose or effect on grounds of race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin, 
and urges all States to rescind or refrain from all forms of racial profiling;  

 5. Recognizes that States should implement and enforce appropriate and 
effective legislative, judicial, regulatory and administrative measures to prevent and 
protect against acts of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance, thereby contributing to the prevention of human rights violations;  

 6. Recognizes also that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
related intolerance occur on the grounds of race, colour, descent, or national or 
ethnic origin and that victims can suffer multiple or aggravated forms of 
discrimination based on other related grounds, such as sex, language, religion, 
political or other opinion, social origin, property, birth or other status;  

__________________ 

 8  A/61/337. 
 9  A/61/335. 
 10  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/61/53), 

part one, chap. II.B, decision 1/102. 



A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1  
 

06-62115 4 
 

 7. Reaffirms that any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that 
constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by 
law;  

 8. Emphasizes that it is the responsibility of States to adopt effective 
measures to combat criminal acts motivated by racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance, including measures to ensure that such 
motivations are considered an aggravating factor for the purposes of sentencing, to 
prevent those crimes from going unpunished and to ensure the rule of law;  

 9. Urges all States to review and, where necessary, revise their immigration 
laws, policies and practices so that they are free of racial discrimination and 
compatible with their obligations under international human rights instruments;  

 10. Condemns the misuse of print, audio-visual and electronic media and 
new communication technologies, including the Internet, to incite violence 
motivated by racial hatred, and calls upon States to take all necessary measures to 
combat this form of racism in accordance with the commitments that they have 
undertaken under the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,1 in particular 
paragraph 147 of the Programme of Action, in accordance with existing 
international and regional standards of freedom of expression and taking all 
necessary measures to guarantee the right to freedom of opinion and expression;  

 11. Encourages all States to include in their educational curricula and social 
programmes at all levels, as appropriate, knowledge of and tolerance and respect for 
all cultures, civilizations, religions, peoples and countries;  

 12. Stresses the responsibility of States to mainstream a gender perspective 
in the design and development of prevention, education and protection measures 
aimed at the eradication of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance at all levels, to ensure that they effectively target the distinct situations 
of women and men;  
 

  II 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms  
of Racial Discrimination 
 

 13. Reaffirms that universal adherence to and full implementation of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination11 are of paramount importance for the fight against racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, including contemporary forms 
of racism and racial discrimination, and for the promotion of equality and non-
discrimination in the world; 

 14. Reiterates the call made by the World Conference against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, in paragraph 75 of the Durban 
Programme of Action,1 to achieve universal ratification of the Convention by 2005 
and for all States to consider making the declaration envisaged under article 14 of 
the Convention, and endorses the grave concern expressed by the Commission on 
Human Rights in its resolution 2005/646 to the effect that, with one hundred and 
seventy-two ratifications and only forty-nine declarations, the deadline for universal 
ratification decided by the Conference has, regrettably, not been realized; 

__________________ 

 11  Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex. 



 A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1

 

5 06-62115 
 

 15. Urges, in the above context, the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to maintain and issue regular updates on its 
website of a list of countries that have not yet ratified the Convention and to 
encourage such countries to ratify it at the earliest; 

 16. Expresses concern at the serious delays in the submission of overdue 
reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, which 
impedes the effectiveness of the Committee, makes a strong appeal to all States 
parties to the Convention to comply with their treaty obligations, and reaffirms the 
importance of the provision of technical assistance to the requesting countries in the 
preparation of their reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial 
Discrimination;  

 17. Invites States parties to the Convention to ratify the amendment to article 
8 of the Convention, on the financing of the Committee, and calls for adequate 
additional resources from the regular budget of the United Nations to enable the 
Committee to discharge its mandate fully; 

 18. Urges all States parties to the Convention to intensify their efforts to 
implement the obligations that they have accepted under article 4 of the Convention, 
with due regard to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights12 
and article 5 of the Convention; 

 19. Welcomes the work of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial 
Discrimination in applying the Convention to the new and contemporary forms of 
racism and racial discrimination;  

 20. Recalls that the Committee holds that the prohibition of the 
dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or racial hatred is compatible with 
the right to freedom of opinion and expression as outlined in article 19 of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in article 5 of the Convention;  

 21. Welcomes the emphasis placed by the Committee on the importance of 
follow-up to the World Conference and the measures recommended to strengthen the 
implementation of the Convention as well as the functioning of the Committee;13 
 

  III 
Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration  
and Programme of Action 
 

 22. Acknowledges that the outcome of the World Conference against Racism, 
Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance is on an equal footing 
with the outcomes of all the major United Nations conferences, summits and special 
sessions in the human rights and social fields;  

 23. Also acknowledges that the World Conference, which was the third world 
conference against racism, was significantly different from the previous two 
conferences, as evidenced by the inclusion in its title of two important components 
relating to contemporary forms of racism, namely, xenophobia and related 
intolerance; 

__________________ 

 12  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 13  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 18 

(A/57/18), chap. XI. 



A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1  
 

06-62115 6 
 

 24. Emphasizes that the basic responsibility for effectively combating 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance lies with States, 
and to this end stresses that States have the primary responsibility to ensure full and 
effective implementation of all commitments and recommendations contained in the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action;1 

 25. Also emphasizes the fundamental and complementary role of national 
human rights institutions, regional bodies or centres and civil society, working 
jointly with States towards the achievement of the objectives of the Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action; 

 26. Welcomes the steps taken by numerous Governments, in particular the 
elaboration and implementation of national action plans to combat racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and steps taken by national 
human rights institutions and non-governmental organizations, towards the full 
implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, and affirms 
this trend as a demonstration of commitment for the elimination of all scourges of 
racism at the national level;  

 27. Calls upon all States that have not yet elaborated their national action 
plans on the combating of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance to comply with their commitments undertaken at the World Conference;  

 28. Calls upon all States to formulate and implement without delay, at the 
national, regional and international levels, policies and plans of action to combat 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, including their 
gender-based manifestations; 

 29. Urges States to support the activities of existing regional bodies or 
centres that combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance in their respective regions, and recommends the establishment of such 
bodies in all regions where they do not exist;  

 30. Recognizes the fundamental role of civil society in the fight against 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, in particular in 
assisting States to develop regulations and strategies, in taking measures and action 
against such forms of discrimination and through follow-up implementation; 

 31. Decides that the General Assembly, through its role in policy 
formulation, the Economic and Social Council, through its role in overall guidance 
and coordination, in accordance with their respective roles under the Charter of the 
United Nations and Assembly resolution 50/227 of 24 May 1996, and the Human 
Rights Council shall constitute a three-tiered intergovernmental process for the 
comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action;  

 32. Stresses and reaffirms its role as the highest intergovernmental 
mechanism for the formulation and appraisal of policy on matters related to the 
economic, social and related fields, in accordance with Chapter IX of the Charter, 
including in the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the goals and 
targets set at all the major United Nations conferences, summits and special 
sessions; 

 33. Decides to convene in 2009 a review conference on the implementation 
of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action to be conducted within the 



 A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1

 

7 06-62115 
 

framework of the General Assembly, making use of the three existing and ongoing 
follow-up mechanisms, and to this end requests the Human Rights Council to 
undertake preparations for this event and formulate a concrete plan by 2007 for the 
review conference; and to provide updates and reports on this issue on an annual 
basis to both the Secretary-General and the General Assembly;  

 34. Reaffirms that the Human Rights Council shall have a central role in the 
monitoring of the implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action within the United Nations system and in advising the General Assembly 
thereon;  

 35. Expresses its appreciation for the continuing work in follow-up to the 
World Conference, undertaken by the Intergovernmental Working Group on the 
Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the 
group of independent eminent experts and the Working Group of Experts on People 
of African Descent;  

 36. Welcomes the identification and/or the consideration of substantive and 
procedural gaps by the Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective 
Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action during its 
fourth session, bearing in mind the need to reinforce the implementation of existing 
international instruments and the elaboration of complementary standards and, to 
this end, requests the Intergovernmental Working Group to continue its work in the 
drafting of a base document for the preparation of complementary international 
standards;  

 37. Acknowledges the centrality of resource mobilization, effective global 
partnership and international cooperation in the context of paragraphs 157 and 158 
of the Durban Programme of Action for the successful realization of commitments 
undertaken at the World Conference, and to this end emphasizes the importance of 
the mandate of the group of independent eminent experts on the implementation of 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, especially in mobilizing the 
necessary political will required for the successful implementation of the 
Declaration and Programme of Action;  

 38. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary resources for the 
effective fulfilment of the mandates of the Intergovernmental Working Group on the 
Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the 
Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent and the group of 
independent eminent experts on the implementation of the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action; 

 39. Expresses its concern at the increasing incidence of racism in various 
sporting events, while noting with appreciation the efforts made by some governing 
bodies of the various sporting codes to combat racism, and in this regard invites all 
international sporting bodies to promote, through their national, regional and 
international federations, a world of sport free from racism and racial 
discrimination; 

 40. Invites, in this context, the Fédération internationale de football 
association, in connection with the 2010 soccer World Cup tournament to be held in 
South Africa, to consider introducing a visible theme on non-racism in football, 
requests the Secretary-General to bring this invitation to the attention of the 
Fédération and to bring the issue of racism in sport to the attention of other relevant 



A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1  
 

06-62115 8 
 

international sporting bodies, and, in this regard, appreciates the joint efforts of the 
Government of Germany, of the Secretary-General and of the Special Rapporteur on 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance during the 2006 
World Cup; 
 

  IV 
Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on contemporary forms of 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and follow-up 
to his visits 
 

 41. Expresses its full support and appreciation for the work of the Special 
Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on contemporary forms of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and encourages its continuation; 

 42. Reiterates its call to all Member States, intergovernmental organizations, 
relevant organizations of the United Nations system and non-governmental 
organizations to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur, and calls upon States 
to consider responding favourably to his requests for visits so as to enable him to 
fulfil his mandate fully and effectively; 

 43. Recognizes with deep concern the increase in anti-Semitism, 
Christianophobia and Islamophobia in various parts of the world, as well as the 
emergence of racial and violent movements based on racism and discriminatory 
ideas directed against Arab, Christian, Jewish and Muslim communities, as well as 
all religious communities, communities of people of African descent, communities 
of people of Asian descent, communities of indigenous people and other 
communities;  

 44. Encourages closer collaboration between the Special Rapporteur and the 
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in particular 
the Anti-Discrimination Unit;  

 45. Urges the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to 
provide States, at their request, with advisory services and technical assistance to 
enable them to implement fully the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur; 

 46. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with 
all the necessary human and financial assistance to carry out his mandate efficiently, 
effectively and expeditiously and to enable him to submit an interim report to the 
General Assembly at its sixty-second session;  

 47. Takes note of the recommendations contained in the interim report of the 
Special Rapporteur,9 and urges Member States and other relevant stakeholders to 
consider implementing those recommendations; 

 48. Requests the Special Rapporteur to continue giving particular attention to 
the negative impact of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance on the full enjoyment of civil, cultural, economic, political and social 
rights by national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, immigrant 
populations, asylum-seekers and refugees; 

 49. Invites Member States to demonstrate greater commitment to fighting 
racism in sport by conducting educational and awareness-raising activities and by 
strongly condemning the perpetrators of racist incidents, in cooperation with 
national and international sports organizations; 



 A/C.3/61/L.53/Rev.1

 

9 06-62115 
 

  V 
General 
 

 50. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation 
of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session; 

 51. Decides to remain seized of this important matter at its sixty-second 
session under the item entitled “Elimination of racism and racial discrimination”. 

 


