






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/65/L.47

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
28 October 2010 
 
Original: English 

 

10-61093 (E)    021110 
*1061093*   

Sixty-fifth session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 68 (c) 
Promotion and protection of human rights:  
human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs  
and representatives 

 
 
 

  Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, 
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, 
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and United 
States of America: draft resolution 
 
 

  Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea 
 
 

 The General Assembly,  

 Reaffirming that States Members of the United Nations have an obligation to 
promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the 
obligations that they have undertaken under the various international instruments,  

 Mindful that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a party to the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,1 the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,1 the Convention on the Rights of the Child2 
and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against 
Women,3  

 Noting the universal periodic review of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea, in December 2009, and hoping that the review will encourage the engagement 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in international cooperative efforts in 
the field of human rights so as to contribute to improving the situation of human 
rights in the country,  

__________________ 

 1  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 2  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 3  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 



A/C.3/65/L.47  
 

10-61093 2 
 

 Recalling the concluding observations of the treaty-monitoring bodies under 
the four treaties to which the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a party,  

 Noting with appreciation the collaboration established between the Government 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United Nations Children’s 
Fund and the World Health Organization in order to improve the health situation in 
the country, and the collaboration established with the United Nations Children’s 
Fund in order to improve the quality of education for children,  

 Noting the decision on the resumption, on a modest scale, of the activities of 
the United Nations Development Programme in the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea, and encouraging the engagement of the Government with the international 
community to ensure that the programmes benefit the persons in need of assistance,  

 Recalling its resolutions 60/173 of 16 December 2005, 61/174 of 19 December 
2006, 62/167 of 18 December 2007, 63/190 of 18 December 2008 and 64/175 of 
18 December 2009, Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2003/10 of 16 April 
2003,4 2004/13 of 15 April 20045 and 2005/11 of 14 April 2005,6 Human Rights 
Council decision 1/102 of 30 June 20067 and Council resolutions 7/15 of 27 March 
2008,8 10/16 of 26 March 20099 and 13/14 of 25 March 2010,10 and mindful of the 
need for the international community to strengthen its coordinated efforts aimed at 
achieving the implementation of those resolutions,  

 Noting that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea did agree to a survey 
of the food situation by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations and the World Food Programme,  

 Taking note of the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human 
rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,11 regretting that he still has 
not been allowed to visit the country and that he received no cooperation from the 
authorities of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and taking note also of 
the comprehensive report of the Secretary-General on the situation of human rights 
in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea submitted in accordance with 
resolution 64/175,12  

 Noting the importance of the inter-Korean dialogue, which could contribute to 
the improvement of the human rights and humanitarian situation in the country,  

 Taking note with appreciation of the recent reunion of separated families 
across the border, which is an urgent humanitarian concern of the entire Korean 
people, and hoping that necessary arrangements for further reunions on a larger 
scale and regular basis will be made as early as possible between the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea,  

__________________ 

 4  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), 
chap. II, sect. A. 

 5  Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), chap. II, sect. A. 
 6  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/2005/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A. 
 7  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/61/53), 

chap. II, sect. B. 
 8  Ibid., Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), chap. II. 
 9  Ibid., Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/64/53), chap. II, sect. A. 
 10  Ibid., Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/65/53), chap. II, sect. A. 
 11  A/65/364. 
 12  A/65/391. 



 A/C.3/65/L.47
 

3 10-61093 
 

 1.  Expresses its very serious concern at:  

 (a)  The persistence of continuing reports of systematic, widespread and 
grave violations of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights in the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including:  

 (i)  Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, 
including inhuman conditions of detention, public executions, extrajudicial and 
arbitrary detention; the absence of due process and the rule of law, including 
fair trial guarantees and an independent judiciary; the imposition of the death 
penalty for political and religious reasons; collective punishments; and the 
existence of a large number of prison camps and the extensive use of forced 
labour;  

 (ii)  Limitations imposed on every person who wishes to move freely within 
the country and travel abroad, including the punishment of those who leave or 
try to leave the country without permission, or their families, as well as 
punishment of persons who are returned;  

 (iii)  The situation of refugees and asylum-seekers expelled or returned to the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and sanctions imposed on citizens of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea who have been repatriated from 
abroad, leading to punishments of internment, torture, cruel, inhuman or 
degrading treatment or the death penalty, and, in this regard, urges all States to 
respect the fundamental principle of non-refoulement, to treat those who seek 
refuge humanely and to ensure unhindered access to the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees and his Office, with a view to improving the 
situation of those who seek refuge, and once again urges States parties to 
comply with their obligations under the 1951 Convention relating to the Status 
of Refugees13 and the 1967 Protocol thereto14 in relation to refugees from the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea who are covered by those instruments;  

 (iv)  All-pervasive and severe restrictions on the freedoms of thought, 
conscience, religion, opinion and expression, peaceful assembly and association, 
the right to privacy and equal access to information, by such means as the 
persecution of individuals exercising their freedom of opinion and expression, 
and their families, and on the right of everyone to take part in the conduct of 
public affairs, directly or through freely chosen representatives, of his or her 
country;  

 (v)  The violations of economic, social and cultural rights, which have led to 
severe malnutrition, widespread health problems and other hardship for the 
population in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in particular for 
persons belonging to particularly exposed groups, inter alia, women, children 
and the elderly;  

 (vi)  Continuing violations of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of 
women, in particular the trafficking of women for the purpose of prostitution 
or forced marriage and the subjection of women to human smuggling, forced 
abortions, gender-based discrimination, including in the economic sphere, and 
gender-based violence;  

__________________ 

 13  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No. 2545. 
 14  Ibid., vol. 606, No. 8791. 



A/C.3/65/L.47  
 

10-61093 4 
 

 (vii)  Continuing reports of violations of the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of children, in particular the continued lack of access to basic 
economic, social and cultural rights for many children, and in this regard notes 
the particularly vulnerable situation faced by, inter alia, returned or repatriated 
children, street children, children with disabilities, children whose parents are 
detained, children living in detention or in institutions and children in conflict 
with the law;15  

 (viii) Continuing reports of violations of the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of persons with disabilities, especially on the use of collective camps 
and of coercive measures that target the rights of persons with disabilities to 
decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children;  

 (ix)  Violations of workers’ rights, including the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, the right to strike as defined by the 
obligations of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea under the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,1 and the 
prohibition of the economic exploitation of children and of any harmful or 
hazardous work of children as defined by the obligations of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea under the Convention on the Rights of the Child;2  

 (b) The continued refusal of the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea to recognize the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the 
situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea or to extend 
cooperation to him, despite the renewal of the mandate by the Human Rights 
Council in its resolutions 7/15,8 10/169 and 13/14;10  

 (c)  The refusal of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea to articulate which recommendations enjoyed its support following its universal 
periodic review at the Human Rights Council, and regrets the lack of actions taken 
to date to implement the recommendations contained in the final outcome;  

 2.  Reiterates its very serious concern at unresolved questions of international 
concern relating to abductions in the form of enforced disappearance, which violates 
the human rights of nationals of other sovereign countries, and in this regard 
strongly calls upon the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
urgently to resolve these questions, including through existing channels, in a 
transparent manner, including by ensuring the immediate return of abductees;  

 3.  Expresses its very deep concern at the precarious humanitarian situation 
in the country, partly as a result of frequent natural disasters, compounded by the 
misallocation of resources away from the satisfaction of basic needs, and the 
increasing State restrictions on the cultivation and trade in foodstuffs, as well as the 
prevalence of chronic malnutrition particularly among the most vulnerable groups, 
pregnant women, infants and the elderly, which, despite some progress, continues to 
affect the physical and mental development of a significant proportion of children, 
and urges the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in this 
regard, to take preventive and remedial action, cooperating where necessary with 
international donor agencies and in accordance with international standards for 
monitoring humanitarian assistance; 

__________________ 

 15  See CRC/C/PRK/CO/4.  



 A/C.3/65/L.47
 

5 10-61093 
 

 4.  Commends the Special Rapporteur for the activities undertaken so far and 
for his continued efforts in the conduct of his mandate despite the limited access to 
information;  

 5.  Strongly urges the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea to respect fully all human rights and fundamental freedoms and, in this regard: 

 (a) To immediately put an end to the systematic, widespread and grave 
violations of human rights mentioned above, inter alia, by implementing fully the 
measures set out in the above-mentioned resolutions of the General Assembly, the 
Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council, and the 
recommendations addressed to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea by the 
Human Rights Council in the context of the universal periodic review and the 
United Nations special procedures and treaty bodies; 

 (b)  To protect its inhabitants, address the issue of impunity and ensure that 
those responsible for violations of human rights are brought to justice before an 
independent judiciary; 

 (c)  To tackle the root causes leading to refugee outflows and prosecute those 
who exploit refugees by human smuggling, trafficking and extortion, while not 
criminalizing the victims, and to ensure that citizens of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea expelled or returned to the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea are able to return in safety and dignity, are humanely treated and are not 
subjected to any kind of punishment; 

 (d)  To extend its full cooperation to the Special Rapporteur, including by 
granting him full, free and unimpeded access to the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea, and to other United Nations human rights mechanisms so as to make a full 
needs assessment of the human rights situation; 

 (e)  To engage in technical cooperation activities in the field of human rights 
with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and her Office, as 
pursued by the High Commissioner in recent years, with a view to improving the 
situation of human rights in the country, and striving to implement the 
recommendations made in the universal periodic review by the Human Rights 
Council; 

 (f)  To engage in cooperation with the International Labour Organization 
with a view to significantly improving workers’ rights; 

 (g)  To continue and reinforce its cooperation with United Nations 
humanitarian agencies; 

 (h)  To ensure full, safe and unhindered access to humanitarian aid and take 
measures to allow humanitarian agencies to secure its impartial delivery to all parts 
of the country on the basis of need in accordance with humanitarian principles, as it 
pledged to do, and to ensure access to adequate food and implement food security 
policies, including through sustainable agriculture; 

 (i)  To improve cooperation with the United Nations country team and 
development agencies so that they can directly contribute to improving the living 
conditions of the civilian population, including accelerating progress towards the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, in accordance with international 
monitoring and evaluation procedures;  



A/C.3/65/L.47  
 

10-61093 6 
 

 6.  Decides to continue its examination of the situation of human rights in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea at its sixty-sixth session, and to this end 
requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the situation in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Special Rapporteur to continue 
to report his findings and recommendations. 

  


