













































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.2/69/L.14/Rev.1 

  

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
11 November 2014 

 

Original: English 

 

 

14-64472 (E)    121114 

*1464472*  
 

Sixty-ninth session 

Second Committee  
Agenda item 19 

Sustainable development 
 

 

 

  Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, 

Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, 

Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 

Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, 

Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, 

Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 

Kenya, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malta, 

Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, 

Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New 

Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 

Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Serbia, 

Seychelles, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Sudan, Spain, Suriname, 

Sweden, Timor-Leste, Togo, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 

and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia: revised  

draft resolution 
 

 

  Entrepreneurship for development 
 

 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 67/202 of 21 December 2012, 

 Reaffirming the commitments to development and poverty eradication 

emanating from the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 and the commitments 

made at the 2005 World Summit,2 the 2010 high-level plenary meeting of the 

General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals3 and other major United 

Nations summits, conferences and special sessions,  

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 55/2. 

 2  Resolution 60/1. 

 3  Resolution 65/1. 



A/C.2/69/L.14/Rev.1 
 

 

14-64472 2/4 

 

 Recalling the special event to follow up efforts made towards achieving the 

Millennium Development Goals, held on 25 September 2013, and its outcome 

document,4 

 Recalling also the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 

Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012,  entitled “The 

future we want”,5 and recognizing the potential of entrepreneurship to contribute to 

specific sustainable development objectives,  

 Reaffirming the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on 

Financing for Development6 in its holistic approach, and the Doha Declaration on 

Financing for Development,7 

 Recalling the Istanbul Declaration and Programme of Action for the Least 

Developed Countries for the decade 2011-2020,8 

 Recalling also the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action9 and the agreed 

conclusions adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its fifty-eighth 

session, and stressing that women, particularly in developing countries, are 

important drivers of entrepreneurship, 

 Taking note of the ministerial declaration adopted at the high-level segment of 

the substantive session of 2012 of the Economic and Social Council on “Promoting 

productive capacity, employment and decent work to eradicate poverty in the 

context of inclusive, sustainable and equitable economic growth at all levels for 

achieving the Millennium Development Goals”,10 

 Welcoming the contribution of all relevant stakeholders, including the private 

sector, non-governmental organizations and civil society, to the implementation of the 

outcomes of the United Nations conferences and summits and their reviews in the 

economic, social, environmental and related fields, as well as the realization of the 

internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development 

Goals,  

 Recognizing the important contribution entrepreneurship can make to 

sustainable development by creating jobs and driving economic growth and 

innovation, improving social conditions and contributing to addressing environmental 

challenges, and stressing the importance of giving appropriate consideration to the 

promotion of entrepreneurship in the context of the discussions on the post -2015 

development agenda,  

 Recognizing also the importance of developing comprehensive and comparable 

data to monitor progress in the implementation of entrepreneurship policies, 

__________________ 

 4  Resolution 68/6. 

 5  Resolution 66/288, annex. 

 6  Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico,  

18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, 

annex. 

 7  Resolution 63/239, annex. 

 8  Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, 

Turkey, 9-13 May 2011 (A/CONF.219/7), chap. II. 

 9  Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United 

Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II. 

 10  E/HLS/2012/1. 

http://undocs.org/A/CONF.219/7
http://undocs.org/E/HLS/2012/1


 
A/C.2/69/L.14/Rev.1 

 

3/4 14-64472 

 

 1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on entrepreneurship for 

development;11 

 2. Emphasizes the need for improved regulatory environments and policy 

initiatives that promote entrepreneurship and foster small and medium-sized 

enterprises, as well as microenterprises, and stresses the positive role entrepreneurship 

plays in driving job creation and expanding opportunities for all, including for women 

and youth;  

 3. Encourages Governments to take a coordinated and inclusive approach to 

promoting entrepreneurship involving all stakeholders, while noting initiatives of civil 

society, academia and the private sector as important entrepreneurship drivers, and to 

develop policies, taking into account national priorities and circumstances, that 

address the legal, social and regulatory barriers to equal, effective economic 

participation, and stresses the need for a comprehensive approach to entrepreneurship 

which includes support from development partners in the areas of technology transfer 

on favourable terms, including on concessional and preferential terms, as mutually 

agreed, finance and capacity-building, with a focus on education and skills 

development;  

 4. Acknowledges the important role trade plays in enhancing the capacity of 

enterprises, and reaffirms in this regard the critical role that a universal, rules -based, 

open, non-discriminatory and equitable multilateral trading system can play in 

stimulating economic growth and development worldwide, thereby benefiting all 

countries at all stages of development as they advance towards sustainable 

development;  

 5. Emphasizes that partnerships with the private sector play an important 

role in promoting entrepreneurship, generating employment and investment, 

increasing revenue potential, developing new technologies and innovative business 

models and enabling high, sustained, inclusive and equitable economic growt h 

while protecting workers’ rights;  

 6. Invites Member States to strengthen the capacity of national financial 

institutions to reach out to those who have no access to banking, insurance and other 

financial services, and encourages them to adopt regulatory and supervisory 

frameworks that facilitate the safe and sound provision of services to such 

populations, increase access to information and promote financial literacy, particularly 

for women;  

 7. Encourages Member States to expand alternative sources of financing 

and diversify the retail financial service system to include non-traditional providers 

of financial services, such as microcredit and microfinance, stresses the value of a 

sound regulatory framework in this regard, and also encourages the provis ion of 

incentives to microfinance institutions that meet national standards for delivering 

sound financial services to the poor, with a particular emphasis on women;  

 8. Emphasizes the important role of national efforts aimed at bringing 

informal workers into the formal economy and integrating them into national social 

security systems;  

__________________ 

 11  A/69/320. 

http://undocs.org/A/69/320


A/C.2/69/L.14/Rev.1 
 

 

14-64472 4/4 

 

 9. Recognizes that technological improvement, particularly through the 

diffusion of technology, can provide new opportunities for businesses to improve 

their competitiveness, and in this regard encourages Member States to increase 

cooperation in support of technology exchange and transfer, innovation and 

capacity-building programmes for promoting entrepreneurship;  

 10. Also recognizes the value of teaching entrepreneurial skills at all levels 

of education, ensuring the full and equal participation of women and girls, and 

encourages entrepreneurship education through skills development, capacity -

building, training programmes and business incubators;  

 11. Acknowledges the role of entrepreneurship in enabling youth to turn their 

creativity, energy and ideas into business opportunities by helping to facilitate their 

entry into the labour market;  

 12. Encourages the United Nations system, in cooperation with Member 

States, to identify indicators that can be used to evaluate the success of 

entrepreneurship policies;  

 13. Recognizes that democratic political institutions, transparent and 

accountable public and private entities, effective anti-corruption measures and 

responsible corporate governance are key conditions for making market economies 

and enterprises more responsive to the values and long-term goals of society;  

 14. Acknowledges that the private sector can contribute to the achievement of 

sustainable development and support national regulatory and policy frameworks that 

enable business and industry to advance sustainable development initiatives, taking 

into account the importance of responsible business practices and corporate social 

responsibility; 

 15. Encourages the international community to support the efforts of 

countries in promoting entrepreneurship and fostering the development of small and 

medium-sized enterprises, as well as microenterprises, taking into account the 

challenges and opportunities of increased trade liberalization;  

 16. Encourages countries to consider establishing or strengthening national 

centres of excellence in entrepreneurship and similar bodies, and further encourages 

cooperation and networking and the sharing of best practices between them; 

 17. Calls upon the relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations 

system to further recognize and integrate entrepreneurship in its various forms into 

their policies, programmes and reports, and to support national efforts in this regard, 

as appropriate; 

 18. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 

seventy-first session a report on the progress made in implementing the present 

resolution, highlighting indicators based on existing work, as well as identifying best 

practices and possible measures which would be taken at all levels in support of 

entrepreneurship.  

 


