












































United Nations A/C.3/57/L.68

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
13 November 2002

Original: English

02-69239 (E)    131102

*0269239*

Fifty-seventh session
Third Committee
Agenda item 109 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoms

Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Chad, China, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Malta, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Namibia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russian
Federation, Saint Lucia, San Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Spain,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zambia, and
Zimbabwe: draft resolution

The right to food

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 56/155 of 19 December 2001, as well as all
Commission on Human Rights resolutions in this regard, in particular resolutions
2000/10 of 17 April 20001 and 2002/25 of 22 April 2002,2

Recalling also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,3 which provides
that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for her/his health and
well-being, including food,

__________________
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2000, Supplement No. 3 and

corrigendum (E/2000/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.
2 Ibid., 2002, Supplement No. 3 (E/2002/23), chap. II, sect. A.
3 Resolution 217 A (III).



2

A/C.3/57/L.68

Recalling further the provisions of the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights,4 in which the fundamental right of every person to be
free from hunger is recognized,

Recalling the Universal Declaration on the Eradication of Hunger and
Malnutrition,5

Bearing in mind the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the Plan of
Action of the World Food Summit,6

Reaffirming that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and
interrelated,

Recognizing that the problems of hunger and food insecurity have global
dimensions and that they are likely to persist and even to increase dramatically in
some regions unless urgent, determined and concerted action is taken, given the
anticipated increase in the world’s population and the stress on natural resources,

Reaffirming that a peaceful, stable and enabling political, social and economic
environment, at both the national and the international level, is the essential
foundation which will enable States to give adequate priority to food security and
poverty eradication,

Reiterating, as did the Rome Declaration as well as the World Food Summit:
five years later, that food should not be used as an instrument of political or
economic pressure, and reaffirming in this regard the importance of international
cooperation and solidarity, as well as the necessity of refraining from unilateral
measures that are not in accordance with international law and the Charter of the
United Nations and that endanger food security,

Convinced that each State must adopt a strategy consistent with its resources
and capacities to achieve its individual goals in implementing the recommendations
contained in the Rome Declaration and Plan of Action of the World Food Summit6

and, at the same time, cooperate regionally and internationally in order to organize
collective solutions to global issues of food security in a world of increasingly
interlinked institutions, societies and economies where coordinated efforts and
shared responsibilities are essential,

Stressing the importance of reversing the continuing decline of official
development assistance devoted to agriculture, both in real terms and as a share of
total official development assistance,

1. Reaffirms that hunger constitutes an outrage and a violation of human
dignity and therefore requires the adoption of urgent measures at the national,
regional and international levels for its elimination;

2. Also reaffirms the right of everyone to have access to safe and nutritious
food, consistent with the right to adequate food and the fundamental right of
everyone to be free from hunger so as to be able fully to develop and maintain their
physical and mental capacities;

__________________
4 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
5 Report of the World Food Conference, Rome, 5-16 November 1974 (United Nations publication,

Sales No. E.75.II.A.3), chap. I.
6 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit, 13-

17 November 1996 (WFS 96/REP), part one, appendix.



3

A/C.3/57/L.68

3. Considers it intolerable that there are around 840 million undernourished
people in the world, and that every year 36 million people die, directly or indirectly,
as a result of hunger and nutritional deficiencies, most of them women and children,
particularly in developing countries, in a world that already produces enough food to
feed the whole global population; and regret that this situation at the same time can
generate additional pressures on the environment in ecologically fragile areas;

4. Welcomes the Declaration of the World Food Summit: five years later,
held in Rome from 10 to 13 June 2002;7

5. Encourages all States to take steps with a view to achieving
progressively the full realization of the right to food, including steps to promote the
conditions for everyone to be free from hunger and, as soon as possible, to enjoy
fully the right to food, and to elaborate and adopt national plans to combat hunger;

6. Stresses the need to make efforts to mobilize and optimize the allocation
and utilization of technical and financial resources from all sources, including
external debt relief for developing countries, and to reinforce national actions to
implement sustainable food security policies;

7. Invites all international financial and developmental institutions, as well
as the relevant United Nations agencies and funds, to give priority to and provide
the necessary funding to realize the aim of halving by the year 2015 the proportion
of people who suffer from hunger, as well as the right to food as set out in Rome
Declaration on World Food Security and in the Secretary-General’s millennium
report;8

8. Urges States to give adequate priority in their development strategies and
expenditures to the realization of the right to food;

9. Takes note of the report of the United Nations Children’s Fund entitled
The State of the World’s Children, 2002, and recalls that the nurturing of young
children merits the highest priority;

10. Takes note with appreciation of the interim report of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the right to food,9 and
commends the Special Rapporteur for his valuable work in the promotion of the
right to food;

11. Supports the realization of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur as
established by the Commission on Human Rights in its resolutions 2000/10 and
2002/25;

12. Expresses its appreciation to the Special Rapporteur for his effective
contribution to the medium-term review of the implementation of the Rome
Declaration on World Food Security and the Plan of Action of the World Food
Summit6 through the submission to the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights of his recommendations on all aspects of the right to food, and his
participation in and contribution to the proceedings of that event;

13. Welcomes the three expert consultations on the right to food convened by
the former High Commissioner and her personal commitment to the promotion and

__________________
7 A/57/499, annex.
8 A/54/2000.
9 A/57/356.



4

A/C.3/57/L.68

realization of the right to food, and expresses its deep appreciation for the
comprehensive report submitted by the former High Commissioner to the World
Food Summit: five years later;

14. Endorses the decision by the Council of the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations to establish at its one hundred and twenty-third
session an intergovernmental working group, with the participation of stakeholders,
in the context of the Declaration of the World Food Summit: five years later,7 to
elaborate in a period of two years a set of voluntary guidelines to support the efforts
of member States to achieve the progressive realization of the right to adequate food
in the context of national food security, as well as the request to the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, in close collaboration with relevant
treaty bodies, agencies and programmes of the United Nations system, to assist the
Intergovernmental Working Group, which shall report on its work to the Committee
on World Food Security, and also request the assistance of the Special Rapporteur in
this regard;

15. Encourages the Special Rapporteur to mainstream a gender perspective
in the activities relating to his mandate;

16. Requests the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner to provide
all the necessary human and financial resources for the effective fulfilment of the
mandate of the Special Rapporteur;

17. Welcomes the work already done by the Committee on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights in promoting the right to adequate food, in particular its General
Comment No. 12 (1999) on the right to adequate food (article 11 of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), in which the Committee
affirmed, inter alia, that the right to adequate food is indivisibly linked to the
inherent dignity of the human person and is indispensable for the fulfilment of other
human rights enshrined in the International Bill of Human Rights, and is also
inseparable from social justice, requiring the adoption of appropriate economic,
environmental and social policies, at both national and international levels, oriented
to the eradication of poverty and the fulfilment of all human rights for all;10

18. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit a comprehensive report to the
Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-ninth session and an interim report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-eight session on the implementation of the present
resolution;

19. Invites Governments, relevant United Nations agencies, funds and
programmes, treaty bodies and non-governmental organizations to cooperate fully
with the Special Rapporteur in the fulfilment of his mandate, inter alia, through the
submission of comments and suggestions on ways and means of realizing the right
to food;

20. Decides to continue the consideration of this matter at its fifty-eighth
session under the agenda item entitled “Human rights questions”.

__________________
10 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2000, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum

(E/2000/22 and Corr.1), annex V, para. 4.


