






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/63/L.49

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
4 November 2008 
 
Original: English 

 

08-58595 (E)    051108     
*0858595* 

Sixty-third session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 62 (a) 
Elimination of racism and racial discrimination: elimination  
of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and  
related intolerance 

 
 
 

  Benin, Cuba, Kyrgyzstan, Russian Federation, Sudan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Zimbabwe: draft resolution 
 
 

  Inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to fuelling 
contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia 
and related intolerance 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights,1 the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination3 
and other relevant human rights instruments, 

 Recalling the provisions of Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2004/16 
of 16 April 20044 and 2005/5 of 14 April 2005,5 and relevant Human Rights 
Council resolutions, in particular resolution 7/34 of 28 March 2008,6 as well as 
General Assembly resolutions 60/143 of 16 December 2005, 61/147 of 19 December 
2006 and 62/142 of 18 December 2007 on this issue and resolutions 61/149 of 19 
December 2006 and 62/220 of 22 December 2007, both entitled “Global efforts for the 
total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance 
and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration 
and Programme of Action”, 

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 217 A (III). 
 2  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464. 
 4  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), 

chap. II, sect. A. 
 5  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/2005/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A. 
 6  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), 

chap. II, sect. A. 



A/C.3/63/L.49  
 

08-58595 2 
 

 Recalling also the Charter of the Nuremberg Tribunal and the Judgement of 
the Tribunal, which recognized, inter alia, the SS organization and all its integral 
parts, including the Waffen SS, as criminal and declared it responsible for many war 
crimes and crimes against humanity, 

 Recalling further the relevant provisions of the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance on 8 September 2001,7 in 
particular paragraph 2 of the Declaration and paragraph 86 of the Programme of 
Action, 

 Recalling equally the study undertaken by the Special Rapporteur on 
contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance,8 and taking note of his report,9  

 Alarmed, in this regard, at the spread in many parts of the world of various 
extremist political parties, movements and groups, including neo-Nazis and 
skinhead groups, 

 1. Reaffirms the provision of the Durban Declaration7 in which States 
condemned the persistence and resurgence of neo-Nazism, neo-Fascism and violent 
nationalist ideologies based on racial and national prejudice and stated that those 
phenomena could never be justified in any instance or in any circumstances; 

 2. Expresses deep concern about the glorification of the Nazi movement 
and former members of the Waffen SS organization, including by erecting 
monuments and memorials and holding public demonstrations in the name of the 
glorification of the Nazi past, the Nazi movement and neo-Nazism, as well as by 
declaring or attempting to declare such members and those who fought against the 
anti-Hitler coalition or collaborated with the Nazi movement as participants of 
national liberation movements; 

 3. Expresses concern at recurring attempts to desecrate or demolish 
monuments erected in remembrance of those who fought against Nazism during the 
Second World War, as well as to unlawfully exhume or remove the remains of such 
persons, and urges States in this regard to fully comply with their relevant 
obligations, inter alia, under article 34 of Additional Protocol I to the Geneva 
Conventions of 1949;10  

 4. Notes with concern the increase in the number of racist incidents in 
several countries and the rise of skinhead groups, which have been responsible for 
many of these incidents, as well as the resurgence of racist and xenophobic violence 
targeting members of ethnic, religious or cultural communities and national 
minorities, as observed by the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in his latest report;9 

 5. Reaffirms that such acts may be qualified to fall within the scope of 
activities described in article 4 of the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Racial Discrimination,3 and that they may represent a clear and 
manifest abuse of the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association as 

__________________ 

 7  See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I. 
 8  E/CN.4/2006/16 and Add.1, Add.2 and Corr.1 and Add.3 and 4. 
 9  See A/63/339. 
 10  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1125, No. 17512. 



 A/C.3/63/L.49
 

3 08-58595 
 

well as the rights to freedom of opinion and expression within the meaning of those 
rights as guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights2 and the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination; 

 6. Stresses that the practices described above do injustice to the memory of 
the countless victims of crimes against humanity committed in the Second World 
War, in particular those committed by the SS organization and those who fought 
against the anti-Hitler coalition or collaborated with the Nazi movement, and poison 
the minds of young people, and that those practices are incompatible with the 
obligations of States Members of the United Nations under its Charter and are 
incompatible with the goals and principles of the Organization; 

 7. Also stresses that such practices fuel contemporary forms of racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and contribute to the 
spread and multiplication of various extremist political parties, movements and 
groups, including neo-Nazis and skinhead groups; 

 8. Emphasizes the need to take the necessary measures to put an end to the 
practices described above, and calls upon States to take more effective measures in 
accordance with international human rights law to combat those phenomena and the 
extremist movements, which pose a real threat to democratic values; 

 9. Reaffirms that, according to article 4 of the International Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, States parties to that 
instrument are, inter alia, under the obligation: 

 (a) To condemn all propaganda and all organizations that are based on ideas 
of racial superiority or that attempt to justify or promote racial hatred and 
discrimination in any form; 

 (b) To undertake to adopt immediate and positive measures designed to 
eradicate all incitement to, or acts of, such discrimination with due regard to the 
principles embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the rights 
expressly set forth in article 5 of the Convention; 

 (c) To declare as an offence punishable by law all dissemination of ideas 
based on racial superiority or hatred, and incitement to racial discrimination, as well 
as all acts of violence or incitement to such acts against any race or group of persons 
of another colour or ethnic origin, and also the provision of any assistance to racist 
activities, including the financing thereof; 

 (d) To declare illegal and prohibit organizations and organized and all other 
propaganda activities that promote and incite racial discrimination and to recognize 
participation in such organizations or activities as an offence punishable by law; 

 (e) To prohibit public authorities or public institutions, national or local, 
from promoting or inciting racial discrimination; 

 10. Encourages those States that have made reservations to article 4 of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 
to give serious consideration to withdrawing such reservations as a matter of 
priority; 

 11. Recalls the request of the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 
2005/55 that the Special Rapporteur continue to reflect on this issue, make relevant 



A/C.3/63/L.49  
 

08-58595 4 
 

recommendations in his future reports and seek and take into account in this regard 
the views of Governments and non-governmental organizations; 

 12. Requests the Special Rapporteur to prepare, for submission to the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session and the Human Rights Council, reports 
on the implementation of the present resolution based on the views collected in 
accordance with the request of the Commission on Human Rights, as recalled by the 
Assembly in paragraph 11 above; 

 13. Urges Governments and non-governmental organizations to cooperate 
fully with the Special Rapporteur in the exercise of the aforementioned tasks; 

 14. Decides to remain seized of the issue. 

 


