






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.4/64/L.13

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
13 November 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-60808 (E)    161109     
*0960808*   

Sixty-fourth session 
Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee) 
Agenda item 31 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for  
Palestine Refugees in the Near East 

 
 
 

  Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Comoros, Cuba, Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Guinea, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, 
Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Qatar, Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Yemen and Palestine: draft resolution 
 
 

  Operations of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
 
 

 The General Assembly,  

 Recalling its resolutions 194 (III) of 11 December 1948, 212 (III) of 
19 November 1948, 302 (IV) of 8 December 1949 and all subsequent related 
resolutions, including its resolution 63/93 of 5 December 2008,  

 Recalling also the relevant Security Council resolutions,  

 Having considered the report of the Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East covering 
the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008,1  

 Taking note of the letter dated 10 June 2009 from the Chairman of the 
Advisory Commission of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East addressed to the Commissioner-General,2  

 Deeply concerned about the critical financial situation of the Agency, as well 
as about its rising expenditures resulting from the deterioration of the socio-
economic and humanitarian conditions in the region and their significant negative 
impact on the provision of necessary Agency services to the Palestine refugees, 
including its emergency-related and development programmes,  

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/64/13 and 
Add.1). 

 2  Ibid., pp. vi and vii. 



A/C.4/64/L.13  
 

09-60808 2 
 

 Recalling Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations,3  

 Recalling also the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated 
Personnel,4  

 Affirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection 
of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,5 to the Palestinian territory 
occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem,  

 Aware of the continuing needs of the Palestine refugees throughout the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory and in the other fields of operation, namely, Jordan, 
Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic,  

 Gravely concerned about the extremely difficult living conditions being faced 
by the Palestine refugees in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East 
Jerusalem, particularly in the refugee camps in the Gaza Strip, as a result of the 
continuing prolonged Israeli closures and severe economic and movement 
restrictions that in effect amount to a blockade and the military operations in the 
Gaza Strip between December 2008 and January 2009, which caused extensive loss 
of life and injury, particularly among Palestinian civilians, including children and 
women; widespread damage and destruction to Palestinian homes, properties, vital 
infrastructure and public institutions, including hospitals, schools and United 
Nations facilities; and internal displacement of civilians,  

 Commending the extraordinary efforts by the Agency to provide emergency 
relief, medical, food, shelter and other humanitarian assistance to needy and 
displaced families in the Gaza Strip, 

 Recalling in this regard resolution ES-10/18 of 16 January 2009 and Security 
Council resolution 1860 (2009) of 8 January 2009, 

 Expressing regret over the continued suspension of the Agency’s efforts to 
repair and rebuild thousands of damaged or destroyed refugee shelters due to the 
continued prohibition of the import of essential construction materials into the Gaza 
Strip by Israel, 

 Stressing the urgent need for reconstruction to begin in the Gaza Strip, 
including through the completion of numerous suspended projects managed by the 
Agency, according to the proposal of the Secretary-General, and the commencement 
of United Nations-led civilian reconstruction activities, 

 Welcoming in this regard the International Conference in Support of the 
Palestinian Economy for the Reconstruction of Gaza, held in Sharm el-Sheikh, 
Egypt, in March 2009, and urging the disbursement of pledges to accelerate the 
reconstruction process,  

 Taking note of the Agency’s continuing efforts to assist those refugees affected 
and displaced by the crisis in the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp in northern Lebanon, 
and welcoming the efforts of the Government of Lebanon and the international 
community to support the rebuilding by the Agency of the Nahr el-Bared camp,  

__________________ 

 3  Resolution 22 A (I). 
 4  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2051, No. 35457. 
 5  Ibid., vol. 75, No. 973. 



 A/C.4/64/L.13
 

3 09-60808 
 

 Aware of the valuable work done by the Agency in providing protection to the 
Palestinian people, in particular Palestine refugees,  

 Gravely concerned about the endangerment of the safety of the Agency’s staff 
and about the damage and destruction caused to the facilities of the Agency, in 
particular as a result of the military operations in the Gaza Strip during the reporting 
period, 

 Deploring the extensive damage and destruction of Agency facilities in the 
Gaza Strip caused during the military operations between December 2008 and 
January 2009, including to schools where civilians were sheltered and the Agency’s 
main compound and warehouse, as reported in the summary by the Secretary-
General on the report of the Board of Inquiry6 and in the report of the United 
Nations Fact-finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict,7 

 Deploring also in this regard the breaches of the inviolability of United 
Nations premises, the failure to accord the property and assets of the Organization 
immunity from any form of interference and the failure to protect United Nations 
personnel, premises and property,  

 Deploring further the killing and injury of Agency staff members by the Israeli 
occupying forces in the Occupied Palestinian Territory since September 2000,  

 Deploring the killing and wounding of refugee children in the Agency schools 
by the Israeli occupying forces,  

 Expressing deep concern about the gravely negative impact of the continuing 
prolonged closures and severe restrictions on the movement of persons and goods, 
which in effect amount to a blockade in the Gaza Strip, and the construction of the 
wall, contrary to international law, in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including 
in and around East Jerusalem, on the socio-economic situation of the Palestine 
refugees,  

 Deeply concerned about the continuing imposition of restrictions on the 
freedom of movement and access of the Agency’s staff, vehicles and goods, and the 
injury, harassment and intimidation of the Agency’s staff, which undermine and 
obstruct the work of the Agency, including its ability to provide essential basic and 
emergency services,  

 Aware of the agreement between the Agency and the Government of Israel,  

 Taking note of the agreement reached on 24 June 1994, embodied in an 
exchange of letters between the Agency and the Palestine Liberation Organization,8  

 1. Reaffirms that the effective functioning of the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East remains essential in all fields 
of operation;  

 2. Expresses its appreciation to the Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, as well as 
to all of the staff of the Agency, for their tireless efforts and valuable work, 

__________________ 

 6  See A/63/855-S/2009/250. 
 7  To be published under the symbol A/HRC/12/48. 
 8  Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/49/13), 

annex I. 



A/C.4/64/L.13  
 

09-60808 4 
 

particularly in the light of the difficult conditions and dangerous circumstances 
faced during the past year, and, on the occasion of her impending retirement, 
expresses its appreciation to Commissioner-General Karen AbuZayd for her nine 
years of dedicated service to the Palestine refugees; 

 3. Expresses special commendation to the Agency on the occasion of the 
sixtieth anniversary of its establishment; 

 4. Expresses its appreciation to the Advisory Commission of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, and 
requests it to continue its efforts and to keep the General Assembly informed of its 
activities;  

 5. Takes note with appreciation of the two reports of the Working Group on 
the Financing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East9 and the efforts of the Working Group to assist in 
ensuring the financial security of the Agency, and requests the Secretary-General to 
provide the necessary services and assistance to the Working Group for the conduct 
of its work;  

 6. Commends the Agency’s six-year Medium Term Strategy, commencing in 
January 2010, and the continuing efforts of the Commissioner-General to increase 
the budgetary transparency and efficiency of the Agency, as reflected in the 
Agency’s programme budget for the biennium 2010-201110 and its comprehensive, 
three-year organizational development plan;  

 7. Requests the Secretary-General to support the institutional strengthening 
of the Agency through the provision of sufficient financial resources from the 
regular budget of the United Nations; 

 8. Endorses the conclusions of the report of the extraordinary meeting of 
the Working Group on the Financing of the United Nations Relief and Works 
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East,11 in particular its request that the 
Secretary-General provide a report on the strengthening of the management capacity 
of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East to the relevant bodies of the General Assembly at the earliest possible date;  

 9. Also endorses the efforts of the Commissioner-General to continue to 
provide humanitarian assistance, as far as practicable, on an emergency basis, and as 
a temporary measure, to persons in the area who are internally displaced and in 
serious need of continued assistance as a result of recent crises in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory and Lebanon; 

 10. Welcomes the pledges made at the International Donor Conference for the 
Recovery and Reconstruction of the Nahr el-Bared Palestine Refugee Camp and 
Conflict-affected Areas of Northern Lebanon, held in Vienna on 23 June 2008, and 
urges all parties to expedite the reconstruction of the camp to alleviate the ongoing 
suffering of the displaced persons;  

__________________ 

 9  A/64/115 and A/64/519. 
 10  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 13A 

(A/64/13/Add.1). 
 11  A/64/115. 



 A/C.4/64/L.13
 

5 09-60808 
 

 11. Acknowledges the important support provided by the host Governments 
to the Agency in the discharge of its duties;  

 12. Encourages the Agency, in close cooperation with other relevant United 
Nations entities, to continue making progress in addressing the needs and rights of 
children and women in its operations in accordance with the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child12 and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination against Women,13 respectively;  

 13. Expresses concern about the relocation of the international staff of the 
Agency from its headquarters in Gaza City and the disruption of operations at the 
headquarters due to the deterioration and instability of the situation on the ground;  

 14. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply fully with the 
provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons 
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949;5  

 15. Also calls upon Israel to abide by Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the 
Charter of the United Nations and the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities 
of the United Nations3 in order to ensure the safety of the personnel of the Agency, 
the protection of its institutions and the safeguarding of the security of its facilities 
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem;  

 16. Urges the Government of Israel to speedily compensate the Agency for 
damage and destruction to its property and facilities resulting from actions by the 
Israeli side, including as a result of the military operations in the Gaza Strip 
between December 2008 and January 2009, and to expeditiously reimburse the 
Agency for all transit charges incurred and other financial losses sustained as a 
result of delays and restrictions on movement and access imposed by Israel; 

 17. Calls upon Israel particularly to cease obstructing the movement and 
access of the staff, vehicles and supplies of the Agency and to cease the levying of 
extra fees and charges, which affect the Agency’s operations detrimentally; 

 18. Also calls upon Israel to cease its obstruction of the import of necessary 
construction materials and supplies for the reconstruction and repair of damaged or 
destroyed Agency facilities and for the implementation of suspended civilian 
infrastructure projects in refugee camps in the Gaza Strip;  

 19. Requests the Commissioner-General to proceed with the issuance of 
identification cards for Palestine refugees and their descendants in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory;  

 20. Notes with appreciation the progress made by the Agency in the 
modernization of its archives through the Palestine Refugee Records Project, and 
encourages the Commissioner-General to finalize the project as rapidly as possible 
and to report on the progress made to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session;  

 21. Notes the success of the Agency’s microfinance and microenterprise 
programmes, and calls upon the Agency, in close cooperation with the relevant 
agencies, to continue to contribute to the development of the economic and social 
stability of the Palestine refugees in all fields of operation;  

__________________ 

 12  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 13  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 



A/C.4/64/L.13  
 

09-60808 6 
 

 22. Reiterates its appeals to all States, specialized agencies and 
non-governmental organizations to continue and to augment the special allocations 
for grants and scholarships for higher education to Palestine refugees in addition to 
their contributions to the regular budget of the Agency and to contribute to the 
establishment of vocational training centres for Palestine refugees, and requests the 
Agency to act as the recipient and trustee for the special allocations for grants and 
scholarships;  

 23. Urges all States, specialized agencies and non-governmental organizations 
to continue and to increase their contributions to the Agency so as to ease the 
ongoing financial constraints, especially with respect to the Agency’s regular budget 
deficit, noting that financial shortfalls have been exacerbated by the current 
humanitarian situation on the ground that has resulted in rising expenditures, in 
particular with regard to emergency services, and to support the Agency’s valuable 
and necessary work in assisting the Palestine refugees in all fields of operation.  

 


