












































United Nations A/C.3/58/L.70

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
18 November 2003

Original: English

03-61897 (E)    191103

*0361897*

Fifty-eighth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 117 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoms

Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, China, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Kenya, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Mali, Mexico, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe: draft resolution

The right to food

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 57/226 of 18 December 2002, as well as all
Commission on Human Rights resolutions in this regard, in particular resolution
2003/25 of 22 April 2003,1

Recalling also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,2 which provides
that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for her/his health and
well-being, including food,

__________________
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
2 Resolution 217 A (III).



2

A/C.3/58/L.70

Recalling further the provisions of the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights,3 in which the fundamental right of every person to be
free from hunger is recognized,

Recalling the Universal Declaration on the Eradication of Hunger and
Malnutrition,4 as well as the United Nations Millennium Declaration,5

Bearing in mind the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the World
Food Summit Plan of Action,6

Bearing in mind also the Declaration of the World Food Summit: five years
later, adopted in Rome from 13 June 2002,7

Reaffirming that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and
interrelated,

Recognizing that the problems of hunger and food insecurity have global
dimensions and that they are likely to persist and even to increase dramatically in
some regions unless urgent, determined and concerted action is taken, given the
anticipated increase in the world’s population and the stress on natural resources,

Reaffirming that a peaceful, stable and enabling political, social and economic
environment, at both the national and the international levels, is the essential
foundation which will enable States to give adequate priority to food security and
poverty eradication,

Reiterating, as did the Rome Declaration as well as the Declaration of the
World Food Summit: five years later, that food should not be used as an instrument
of political or economic pressure, and reaffirming in this regard the importance of
international cooperation and solidarity, as well as the necessity of refraining from
unilateral measures that are not in accordance with international law and the Charter
of the United Nations and that endanger food security,

Convinced that each State must adopt a strategy consistent with its resources
and capacities to achieve its individual goals in implementing the recommendations
contained in the Rome Declaration and the World Food Summit Plan of Action and,
at the same time, cooperate regionally and internationally in order to organize
collective solutions to global issues of food security in a world of increasingly
interlinked institutions, societies and economies where coordinated efforts and
shared responsibilities are essential,

Stressing the importance of reversing the continuing decline of official
development assistance devoted to agriculture, both in real terms and as a share of
total official development assistance,

__________________
3 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
4 Report of the World Food Conference, Rome, 5-16 November 1974 (United Nations publication,

Sales No. E.75.II.A.3), chap. I.
5 Resolution 55/2.
6 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit, 13-

17 November 1996 (WFS 96/REP), part one, appendix.
7 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit:

five years later, 10-13 June 2002, part one, appendix; see also A/57/499, annex.



3

A/C.3/58/L.70

1. Reaffirms that hunger constitutes an outrage and a violation of human
dignity and therefore requires the adoption of urgent measures at the national,
regional and international levels for its elimination;

2. Also reaffirms the right of everyone to have access to safe and nutritious
food, consistent with the right to adequate food and the fundamental right of
everyone to be free from hunger so as to be able fully to develop and maintain their
physical and mental capacities;

3. Considers it intolerable that there are around 840 million undernourished
people in the world, every seven seconds a child under the age of ten dies, directly
or indirectly, of hunger somewhere in the world and more than 2 billion people
worldwide suffer from “hidden hunger”, or micronutrient malnutrition;

4. Expresses its concern that women are disproportionately affected by
hunger, food insecurity and poverty, in part as a result of gender inequality, and that
in many countries, girls are twice as likely to die from malnutrition and preventable
childhood diseases as boys, and it is estimated that almost twice as many women
suffer from malnutrition as men;

5. Encourages all States to take steps with a view to achieving
progressively the full realization of the right to food, including steps to promote the
conditions for everyone to be free from hunger and, as soon as possible, to enjoy
fully the right to food, and to elaborate and adopt national plans to combat hunger;

6. Also encourages all States to take action to address discrimination
against women, particularly where it contributes to the malnutrition of women and
girls, including measures to ensure the realization of the right to food, and ensuring
that women have equal access to resources, including income, land and water, to
enable them to feed themselves;

7. Stresses the need to make efforts to mobilize and optimize the allocation
and utilization of technical and financial resources from all sources, including
external debt relief for developing countries, and to reinforce national actions to
implement sustainable food security policies;

8. Invites once again all international financial and developmental
institutions, as well as the relevant United Nations agencies and funds, to give
priority to and provide the necessary funding to realize the aim of halving by 2015
the proportion of people who suffer from hunger, as well as the right to food as set
out in the Rome Declaration on World Food Security6 and the United Nations
Millennium Declaration;5

9. Urges States to give adequate priority in their development strategies and
expenditures to the realization of the right to food;

10. Takes note with appreciation of the interim report of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the right to food,8 and
commends the Special Rapporteur for his valuable work in the promotion of the
right to food;

11. Supports the realization of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur as
extended by the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 2003/25;

__________________
8 A/58/330.



4

A/C.3/58/L.70

12. Expresses its appreciation to the Special Rapporteur for his effective
contribution to the medium-term review of the implementation of the Rome
Declaration on World Food Security and the World Food Summit Plan of Action6

through the submission to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
of his recommendations on all aspects of the right to food, and his participation in
and contribution to the proceedings of that event;

13. Encourages the Special Rapporteur to mainstream a gender perspective
in the activities relating to his mandate;

14. Requests the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner to provide
all the necessary human and financial resources for the effective fulfilment of the
mandate of the Special Rapporteur;

15. Welcomes the work already done by the Committee on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights in promoting the right to adequate food, in particular its general
comment No. 12 (1999) on the right to adequate food (article 11 of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), in which the Committee
affirmed, inter alia, that the right to adequate food is indivisibly linked to the
inherent dignity of the human person and is indispensable for the fulfilment of other
human rights enshrined in the International Bill of Human Rights, and is also
inseparable from social justice, requiring the adoption of appropriate economic,
environmental and social policies, at both national and international levels, oriented
to the eradication of poverty and the fulfilment of all human rights for all;9

16. Welcomes the work of the Intergovernmental Working Group mandated
by the Council of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations to
elaborate, in a period of two years, a set of voluntary guidelines to support the
efforts of Member States to achieve the progressive realization of the right to
adequate food in the context of national food security;

17. Welcomes the continued cooperation of the High Commissioner, the
Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Special Rapporteur,
and encourages them to continue their cooperation in this regard;

18. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit a comprehensive report to the
Commission on Human Rights at its sixtieth session and an interim report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the implementation of the present
resolution;

19. Invites Governments, relevant United Nations agencies, funds and
programmes, treaty bodies and non-governmental organizations to cooperate fully
with the Special Rapporteur in the fulfilment of his mandate, inter alia, through the
submission of comments and suggestions on ways and means of realizing the right
to food;

20. Decides to continue the consideration of this matter at its fifty-ninth
session under the item entitled “Human rights questions”.

__________________
9 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2000, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum

(E/2000/22 and Corr.1), annex V, para. 4.


