












































United Nations A/C.4/57/L.13

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
8 November 2002

Original: English

02-68412 (E)    111102

*0268412*

Fifty-seventh session
Special Political and Decolonization
Committee (Fourth Committee)
Agenda item 76
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East

Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan,
Kuwait, Malaysia, Morocco, Namibia, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia,
South Africa, Sudan, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen and Palestine:
draft resolution

Operations of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 194 (III) of 11 December 1948, 212 (III) of
19 November 1948, 302 (IV) of 8 December 1949 and all subsequent related
resolutions, including resolution 56/56 of 10 December 2001,

Recalling also the relevant Security Council resolutions,

Having considered the report of the Commissioner-General of the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East covering
the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002,1

Taking note of the letter dated 26 September 2002 from the Chairperson of the
Advisory Commission of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East addressed to the Commissioner-General,2

Recalling Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United Nations and
the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations,3

Affirming the applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,4 to the
Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem,

__________________
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/57/13).
2 Ibid., p. viii.
3 Resolution 22 A (I).
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.



2

A/C.4/57/L.13

Aware of the continuing needs of Palestine refugees throughout the Occupied
Palestinian Territory and in the other fields of operation, namely, in Lebanon, Jordan
and the Syrian Arab Republic,

Also aware of the valuable work done by the refugee affairs officers of the
Agency in providing protection to the Palestinian people, in particular Palestine
refugees,

Gravely concerned about the increased suffering of the Palestine refugees,
including the loss of life, injury and destruction and damage to refugee shelters and
properties, during the recent tragic events in the Occupied Palestinian Territory,
including East Jerusalem,

Expressing grave concern about the recent events that have taken place in the
Jenin refugee camp, including the loss of life, injury, destruction and displacement
inflicted on many of its inhabitants,

Gravely concerned about the safety of the staff and the damage to the facilities
of the Agency as a result of Israeli military operations during the reporting period,

Expressing deep concern about the policies of closure and severe restrictions,
including in particular the curfews, imposed on the movement of persons and goods
throughout the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, which have
had a grave impact on the socio-economic situation of the Palestine refugees and
have greatly contributed to the dire humanitarian crisis facing the Palestinian
people,

Deeply concerned about the continuing restrictions on the freedom of
movement of the staff of the Agency, vehicles and goods, including the harassment
of personnel, which adversely impact the ability of the Agency to provide its
services, including its educational, health and relief and social services,

Deeply concerned also about the continuing critical financial situation of the
Agency and its effect on the continuity of provision of necessary Agency services to
the Palestine refugees, including the emergency-related programmes,

Recalling the signing, on 13 September 1993, of the Declaration of Principles
on Interim Self-Government Arrangements by the Government of Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization5 and the subsequent implementation agreements,

Aware of the agreement between the Agency and the Government of Israel,

Aware also of the establishment of a working relationship between the
Advisory Commission of the Agency and the Palestine Liberation Organization in
accordance with General Assembly decision 48/417 of 10 December 1993,

Taking note of the agreement reached on 24 June 1994, embodied in an
exchange of letters between the Agency and the Palestine Liberation Organization,6

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Commissioner-General of the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, as well
as to all of the staff of the Agency, for their tireless efforts and valuable work,

__________________
5 A/48/486-S/26560, annex.
6 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/49/13),

annex I.



3

A/C.4/57/L.13

particularly in the light of the increasingly difficult conditions throughout the past
year;

2. Also expresses its appreciation to the Advisory Commission of the
Agency, and requests it to continue its efforts and to keep the General Assembly
informed of its activities, including the full implementation of decision 48/417;

3. Commends the efforts of the Commissioner-General to increase the
budgetary transparency and efficiency of the Agency;

4. Acknowledges the support of the host Governments for the Agency in the
discharge of its duties;

5. Takes note of the functioning of the headquarters of the Agency in Gaza
City on the basis of the Headquarters Agreement between the Agency and the
Palestinian Authority;

6. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply fully with the
provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949;4

7. Also calls upon Israel to abide by Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the
Charter of the United Nations and the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities
of the United Nations3 with regard to the safety of the personnel of the Agency, the
protection of its institutions and the safeguarding of the security of the facilities of
the Agency in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem;

8. Urges the Government of Israel to compensate the Agency for damage to
its property and facilities resulting from actions by the Israeli side, particularly
during the reporting period;

9. Calls upon Israel particularly to cease obstructing the movement of the
personnel, vehicles and supplies of the Agency and to cease the levying of extra fees
and charges, which have a detrimental impact on the Agency’s operations;

10. Requests the Commissioner-General to proceed with the issuance of
identification cards for Palestine refugees and their descendants in the Occupied
Palestinian Territory;

11. Notes that the functioning of the Agency remains essential in all fields of
operation;

12. Notes also the success of the Agency’s microfinance and enterprise
programmes, and calls upon the Agency, in close cooperation with the relevant
agencies, to continue to contribute towards the development of economic and social
stability of the Palestine refugees;

13. Reiterates its request to the Commissioner-General to proceed with the
modernization of the archives of the Agency and to indicate the progress made in
that regard in his report to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;

14. Urges all States, specialized agencies and non-governmental
organizations to continue and to increase their contributions to the Agency so as to
ease the ongoing financial constraints, which have been exacerbated by the current
humanitarian situation on the ground, and to support the Agency’s valuable work in
providing assistance to the Palestine refugees.


