






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.1/65/L.22

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
14 October 2010 
 
Original: English 

 

10-58245 (E)    181010 
*1058245*   

Sixt y-fifth session 
First Committee 
Agenda item 97 (aa) 
General and complete disarmament: nuclear disarmament 

 
 
 

  Algeria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Central 
African Republic, Congo, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines, Senegal, Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Uganda, Venezuela 
(Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe: draft resolution 
 
 

  Nuclear disarmament 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 49/75 E of 15 December 1994 on a step-by-step 
reduction of the nuclear threat, and its resolutions 50/70 P of 12 December 1995, 
51/45 O of 10 December 1996, 52/38 L of 9 December 1997, 53/77 X of 4 December 
1998, 54/54 P of 1 December 1999, 55/33 T of 20 November 2000, 56/24 R of 
29 November 2001, 57/79 of 22 November 2002, 58/56 of 8 December 2003, 59/77 
of 3 December 2004, 60/70 of 8 December 2005, 61/78 of 6 December 2006, 62/42 
of 5 December 2007, 63/46 of 2 December 2008 and 64/53 of 2 December 2009 on 
nuclear disarmament, 

 Reaffirming the commitment of the international community to the goal of the 
total elimination of nuclear weapons and the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free 
world, 

 Bearing in mind that the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, 
Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and 
on Their Destruction of 19721 and the Convention on the Prohibition of the 
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their 
Destruction of 19932 have already established legal regimes on the complete 
prohibition of biological and chemical weapons, respectively, and determined to 
achieve a nuclear weapons convention on the prohibition of the development, 
testing, production, stockpiling, loan, transfer, use and threat of use of nuclear 

__________________ 

 1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1015, No. 14860. 
 2  Ibid., vol. 1974, No. 33757. 



A/C.1/65/L.22  
 

10-58245 2 
 

weapons and on their destruction, and to conclude such an international convention 
at an early date, 

 Recognizing that there now exist conditions for the establishment of a world 
free of nuclear weapons, and stressing the need to take concrete practical steps 
towards achieving this goal, 

 Bearing in mind paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the tenth special 
session of the General Assembly, the first special session devoted to disarmament,3 
calling for the urgent negotiation of agreements for the cessation of the qualitative 
improvement and development of nuclear-weapon systems, and for a comprehensive 
and phased programme with agreed time frames, wherever feasible, for the 
progressive and balanced reduction of nuclear weapons and their means of delivery, 
leading to their ultimate and complete elimination at the earliest possible time, 

 Reaffirming the conviction of the States parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons4 that the Treaty is a cornerstone of nuclear 
non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament, and the importance of the decision on 
strengthening the review process for the Treaty, the decision on principles and 
objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament, the decision on the extension 
of the Treaty and the resolution on the Middle East, adopted by the 1995 Review and 
Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons,5 

 Stressing the importance of the thirteen steps for the systematic and progressive 
efforts to achieve the objective of nuclear disarmament leading to the total elimination 
of nuclear weapons, as agreed to by the States parties in the Final Document of the 
2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons,6 

  Recognizing the important work done at the 2010 Review Conference of the 
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and expressing 
its plan of action as an impetus to intensify work aimed at beginning negotiations 
for a nuclear weapons convention, 

 Reiterating the highest priority accorded to nuclear disarmament in the Final 
Document of the tenth special session of the General Assembly and by the 
international community, 

 Reiterating its call for an early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty,7 

 Taking note of the signing of the new strategic arms reduction treaty between 
the Russian Federation and the United States of America, in order to achieve further 
deep cuts in their strategic and tactical nuclear weapons and stressing that such cuts 
should be irreversible, verifiable and transparent, 

__________________ 

 3 Resolution S-10/2. 
 4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485. 
 5 See 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 

of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex. 
 6 See 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 

Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I, section entitled 
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15. 

 7 See resolution 50/245. 



 A/C.1/65/L.22
 

3 10-58245 
 

 Recalling the entry into force of the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions 
(“the Moscow Treaty”) between the United States of America and the Russian 
Federation8 as a significant step towards reducing their deployed strategic nuclear 
weapons, while calling for further irreversible deep cuts in their nuclear arsenals, 

 Noting the positive statements by nuclear-weapon States of their intention to 
pursue actions in achieving a world free of nuclear weapons, while reaffirming the 
need for urgent concrete actions by nuclear-weapon States to achieve this goal 
within a specified framework of time, and urging them to take further measures for 
progress on nuclear disarmament, 

 Recognizing the complementarity of bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral 
negotiations on nuclear disarmament, and that bilateral negotiations can never 
replace multilateral negotiations in this respect, 

 Noting the support expressed in the Conference on Disarmament and in the 
General Assembly for the elaboration of an international convention to assure 
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, and 
the multilateral efforts in the Conference on Disarmament to reach agreement on 
such an international convention at an early date, 

 Recalling the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the 
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued on 8 July 1996,9 and 
welcoming the unanimous reaffirmation by all Judges of the Court that there exists 
an obligation for all States to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion 
negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and 
effective international control, 

 Mindful of paragraph 102 of the Final Document of the Coordinating Bureau 
of the Non-Aligned Movement at its Ministerial Meeting, held in Havana from 27 to 
30 April 2009,10 

 Recalling paragraph 112 and other relevant recommendations in the Final 
Document of the Fifteenth Summit Conference of Heads of State and Government of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on 15 and 
16 July 2009,11 calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to establish, as soon 
as possible and as the highest priority, an ad hoc committee on nuclear disarmament 
and to commence negotiations on a phased programme for the complete elimination 
of nuclear weapons within a specified framework of time, including a nuclear 
weapons convention, 

 Noting the adoption of the programme of work for the 2009 session by the 
Conference on Disarmament on 29 May 2009,12 after years of stalemate, while 
regretting that the Conference has not been able to undertake substantive work on its 
agenda in 2010, 

  Reaffirming the importance and validity of the Conference on Disarmament as 
the sole multilateral negotiating forum on disarmament, and expressing the need to 

__________________ 

 8 See CD/1674. 
 9 A/51/218, annex; see also Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, Advisory Opinion, 

I.C.J. Reports 1996, p. 226. 
 10 See A/63/858. 
 11 See A/63/965-S/2009/514, annex. 
 12 See CD/1864. 



A/C.1/65/L.22  
 

10-58245 4 
 

adopt and implement a balanced and comprehensive programme of work on the basis 
of its agenda and dealing with, inter alia, four core issues, in accordance with the rules 
of procedure, and by taking into consideration the security concerns of all States, 

 Reaffirming the specific mandate conferred upon the Disarmament Commission 
by the General Assembly, in its decision 52/492 of 8 September 1998, to discuss the 
subject of nuclear disarmament as one of its main substantive agenda items, 

 Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration,13 in which Heads of 
State and Government resolved to strive for the elimination of weapons of mass 
destruction, in particular nuclear weapons, and to keep all options open for 
achieving this aim, including the possibility of convening an international 
conference to identify ways of eliminating nuclear dangers, 

 Reaffirming that, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, States 
should refrain from the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons in settling their 
disputes in international relations, 

 Seized of the danger of the use of weapons of mass destruction, particularly 
nuclear weapons, in terrorist acts and the urgent need for concerted international 
efforts to control and overcome it, 

 1. Recognizes that the time is now opportune for all the nuclear-weapon 
States to take effective disarmament measures to achieve the total elimination of 
these weapons at the earliest possible time; 

 2. Reaffirms that nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation are 
substantively interrelated and mutually reinforcing, that the two processes must go 
hand in hand and that there is a genuine need for a systematic and progressive 
process of nuclear disarmament; 

 3. Welcomes and encourages the efforts to establish new nuclear-weapon-
free zones in different parts of the world, including the establishment of a Middle 
East zone free of nuclear weapons, on the basis of agreements or arrangements 
freely arrived at among the States of the regions concerned, which is an effective 
measure for limiting the further spread of nuclear weapons geographically and 
contributes to the cause of nuclear disarmament; 

 4. Recognizes that there is a genuine need to diminish the role of nuclear 
weapons in strategic doctrines and security policies to minimize the risk that these 
weapons will ever be used and to facilitate the process of their total elimination; 

 5. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to stop immediately the qualitative 
improvement, development, production and stockpiling of nuclear warheads and 
their delivery systems; 

 6. Also urges the nuclear-weapon States, as an interim measure, to de-alert 
and deactivate immediately their nuclear weapons and to take other concrete 
measures to reduce further the operational status of their nuclear-weapon systems, 
while stressing that reductions in deployments and in operational status cannot 
substitute for irreversible cuts in, and the total elimination of, nuclear weapons; 

 7. Reiterates its call upon the nuclear-weapon States to undertake the step-
by-step reduction of the nuclear threat and to carry out effective nuclear 

__________________ 

 13 See resolution 55/2. 



 A/C.1/65/L.22
 

5 10-58245 
 

disarmament measures with a view to achieving the total elimination of these 
weapons within a specified framework of time; 

 8. Calls upon the nuclear-weapon States, pending the achievement of the 
total elimination of nuclear weapons, to agree on an internationally and legally 
binding instrument on a joint undertaking not to be the first to use nuclear weapons, 
and calls upon all States to conclude an internationally and legally binding 
instrument on security assurances of non-use and non-threat of use of nuclear 
weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States; 

 9. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to commence plurilateral negotiations 
among themselves at an appropriate stage on further deep reductions of nuclear 
weapons as an effective measure of nuclear disarmament; 

 10. Underlines the importance of applying the principles of transparency, 
irreversibility and verifiability to the process of nuclear disarmament and to nuclear 
and other related arms control and reduction measures; 

 11. Underscores the importance of the unequivocal undertaking by the 
nuclear-weapon States, in the Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of 
the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,6 to 
accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear 
disarmament, to which all States parties are committed under article VI of the 
Treaty,14 and the reaffirmation by the States parties that the total elimination of 
nuclear weapons is the only absolute guarantee against the use or threat of use of 
nuclear weapons;15 

 12. Calls for the full and effective implementation of the thirteen practical 
steps for nuclear disarmament contained in the Final Document of the 2000 Review 
Conference; 

 13. Also calls for the full implementation of the action plan as set out in the 
conclusions and recommendations for follow-on actions of the Final Document adopted 
at the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons, particularly the 22-point action plan on nuclear disarmament; 

  14. Urges the nuclear-weapon States to carry out further reductions of 
non-strategic nuclear weapons, based on unilateral initiatives and as an integral part 
of the nuclear arms reduction and disarmament process; 

 15. Calls for the immediate commencement of negotiations in the 
Conference on Disarmament on a non-discriminatory, multilateral and 
internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile 
material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices on the basis of the 
report of the Special Coordinator16 and the mandate contained therein; 

 16. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to commence as early as possible 
its substantive work during its 2011 session, on the basis of a comprehensive and 
balanced programme of work that takes into consideration all the real and existing 

__________________ 

 14 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and II)), part I, section entitled 
“Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs”, para. 15:6. 

 15 Ibid., section entitled “Article VII and the security of non-nuclear-weapon States”, para. 2. 
 16 CD/1299. 



A/C.1/65/L.22  
 

10-58245 6 
 

priorities in the field of disarmament and arms control, including the immediate 
commencement of negotiations on such a treaty with a view to their conclusion 
within five years; 

 17. Calls for the conclusion of an international legal instrument or 
instruments on adequate security assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States; 

 18. Also calls for the early entry into force and strict observance of the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty;7 

 19. Expresses its regret that the Conference on Disarmament was unable to 
establish an ad hoc committee to deal with nuclear disarmament early in 2010, as 
called for by the General Assembly in its resolution 64/53; 

 20. Reiterates its call upon the Conference on Disarmament to establish, as 
soon as possible and as the highest priority, an ad hoc committee on nuclear 
disarmament early in 2011 and to commence negotiations on a phased programme 
of nuclear disarmament leading to the total elimination of nuclear weapons within a 
specified framework of time; 

 21. Calls for the convening of an international conference on nuclear 
disarmament in all its aspects at an early date to identify and deal with concrete 
measures of nuclear disarmament; 

 22. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-sixth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution; 

 23. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-sixth session the 
item entitled “Nuclear disarmament”. 

 


