






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/62/L.37/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
15 November 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-60137 (E)    161107 
*0760137* 

Sixty-second session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 70 (c) 
Promotion and protection of human rights: human  
rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs  
and representatives 

 
 
 

  Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, 
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, 
Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland and United States of America: revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic  
of Korea 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Reaffirming that States Members of the United Nations have an obligation to 
promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the 
obligations that they have undertaken under the various international instruments, 

 Mindful that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a party to the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,1 the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,1 the Convention on the Rights of the Child2 
and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against 
Women,3 

 Noting the submission by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea of its 
second periodic report concerning the implementation of the International Covenant 
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,4 its second periodic report on the 

__________________ 

 1  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 2  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 3  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 
 4  E/1990/6/Add.35. 



A/C.3/62/L.37/Rev.1  
 

07-60137 2 
 

implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and its initial report 
on the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination against Women,6 as a sign of engagement in international 
cooperative efforts in the field of human rights, 

 Taking note of the concluding observations of the treaty monitoring bodies 
under the four treaties, the most recent of which were given by the Committee on 
the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in July 2005,7 

 Noting with appreciation the collaboration established between the 
Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United Nations 
Children’s Fund and World Health Organization in order to improve the health 
situation in the country, and the collaboration established with the United Nations 
Children’s Fund in order to improve the quality of education for children, 

 Recalling its resolutions 60/173 of 16 December 2005 and 61/174 of 
19 December 2006, Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2003/10 of 16 April 
2003,8 2004/13 of 15 April 20049 and 2005/11 of 14 April 2005,10 and Human 
Rights Council decision 1/102 of 30 June 2006,11 and mindful of the need for the 
international community to strengthen its coordinated efforts aimed at achieving the 
implementation of those resolutions, 

 Taking note of the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human 
rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea12 and of the comprehensive 
report of the Secretary-General on the situation of human rights in the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea submitted in accordance with its resolution 61/174,13 

 Welcoming the inter-Korean summit held from 2 to 4 October 2007 and the 
Declaration on the Advancement of North-South Korean Relations, Peace and 
Prosperity adopted on 4 October 2007 by the two leaders of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea, as well as the recent progress 
achieved in the Six-Party Talks, and encouraging the improvement of the human 
rights situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including through 
effective follow-up, 

 1. Expresses its very serious concern at: 

 (a) The continued refusal of the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea to recognize the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the 
situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea or to extend 
cooperation to him; 

__________________ 

 5  CRC/C/65/Add.24. 
 6  CEDAW/C/PRK/1. 
 7  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/60/38), 

part two, paras. 26-76. 
 8  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), 

chap. II, sect. A. 
 9  Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), chap. II, sect. A. 
 10  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/2005/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A. 
 11  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/61/53), 

chap. II, sect. B. 
 12  See A/62/264. 
 13  A/62/318. 



 A/C.3/62/L.37/Rev.1
 

3 07-60137 
 

 (b) The persistence of continuing reports of systematic, widespread and 
grave violations of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights in the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including: 

 (i) Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, 
including inhuman conditions of detention, public executions, extrajudicial 
and arbitrary detention; the absence of due process and the rule of law, 
including fair trial guarantees and an independent judiciary; the imposition of 
the death penalty for political and religious reasons; and the existence of a 
large number of prison camps and the extensive use of forced labour; 

 (ii) The situation of refugees and asylum-seekers expelled or returned to the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and sanctions imposed on citizens of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea who have been repatriated from 
abroad leading to punishments of internment, torture, cruel, inhuman or 
degrading treatment or the death penalty, and in this regard urges all States to 
ensure respect for the fundamental principle of non-refoulement and to treat 
those who seek refuge humanely; 

 (iii) All-pervasive and severe restrictions on the freedoms of thought, 
conscience, religion, opinion and expression, peaceful assembly and 
association, and on equal access to information, by such means as the 
persecution of individuals exercising their freedom of opinion and expression, 
and their families; 

 (iv) Limitations imposed on every person who wishes to move freely within 
the country and travel abroad, including the punishment of those who leave, or 
try to leave, the country without permission, or their families; 

 (v) The violations of economic, social and cultural rights, which have led to 
severe malnutrition, widespread health problems and other hardship for the 
population in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, inter alia, women, 
children and the elderly; 

 (vi) Continuing violation of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of 
women, in particular the trafficking of women for the purpose of prostitution 
or forced marriage and the subjection of women to human smuggling, forced 
abortions, gender-based discrimination and violence; 

 (vii) Continuing reports of violations of the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of persons with disabilities, especially on the use of collective camps 
and of coercive measures that target the rights of persons with disabilities to 
decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children; 

 (viii) Violations of workers’ rights, including the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, the right to strike as defined by the 
obligations of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea under the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,1 and the 
prohibition of the economic exploitation of children and of any harmful or 
hazardous work of children as defined by the obligations of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea under the Convention on the Rights of the Child;5 

 2. Reiterates its very serious concern at unresolved questions of 
international concern relating to the abduction of foreigners in the form of enforced 
disappearance, which violates the human rights of the nationals of other sovereign 



A/C.3/62/L.37/Rev.1  
 

07-60137 4 
 

countries, and in this regard strongly calls upon the Government of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea urgently to resolve these questions, including through 
existing channels, in a transparent manner, including by ensuring the immediate 
return of abductees; 

 3. Notes the prompt reaction of the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea to the latest floods and the openness shown in seeking outside 
assistance, and expresses its very deep concern at the precarious humanitarian 
situation in the country, compounded by the misallocation of resources away from 
the satisfaction of basic needs and by frequent natural disasters, in particular the 
prevalence of maternal malnutrition and of infant malnutrition, which, despite recent 
progress, continues to affect the physical and mental development of a significant 
proportion of children, and urges the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, in this regard, to take preventive and remedial action, to 
facilitate access to humanitarian aid and measures to allow humanitarian agencies to 
secure its impartial delivery to all parts of the country on the basis of need in 
accordance with humanitarian principles, and to ensure food security, including 
through sustainable agriculture; 

 4. Strongly urges the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea to respect fully all human rights and fundamental freedoms and, in this 
regard: 

 (a) To immediately put an end to the systematic, widespread and grave 
violations of human rights mentioned above, inter alia by implementing fully the 
measures set out in the above-mentioned resolutions of the General Assembly and 
the Commission on Human Rights, and the recommendations addressed to the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea by the United Nations special procedures 
and treaty bodies; 

 (b) To tackle the root causes leading to refugee outflows and criminalize 
those who exploit refugees by human smuggling, trafficking and extortion, while 
not criminalizing the victims; 

 (c) To extend its full cooperation to the Special Rapporteur, including by 
granting him full, free and unimpeded access to the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea, and to other United Nations human rights mechanisms; 

 (d) To engage in technical cooperation activities in the field of human rights 
with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and her Office, as 
pursued by the High Commissioner in recent years, with a view to improving the 
human rights situation in the country; 

 (e) To extend to United Nations agencies and other humanitarian actors all 
access necessary to allow them to carry out their mandates; 

 5. Decides to continue its examination of the situation of human rights in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea at its sixty-third session, and to this end 
requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the situation in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Special Rapporteur to continue 
to report his findings and recommendations. 

 


