






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/61/L.37

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
2 November 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-60054 (E)    061106     
*0660054* 

Sixty-first session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 67 (c) 
Promotion and protection of human rights: human rights 
situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives 
 
 
 

  Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
and United States of America: draft resolution 
 
 

  Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s  
Republic of Korea 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Reaffirming that States Members of the United Nations have an obligation to 
promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the 
obligations that they have undertaken under the various international instruments,  

 Mindful that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a party to the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,1 the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,1 the Convention on the Rights of the Child2 
and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against 
Women,3  

 Noting the submission by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea of its 
second periodic report concerning the implementation of the International Covenant 
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,4 its second periodic report on the 
implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and its initial report 
on the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 

__________________ 

 1  See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
 2  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 3  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 
 4  E/1990/6/Add.35. 
 5  CRC/C/65/Add.24. 



A/C.3/61/L.37  
 

06-60054 2 
 

Discrimination against Women,6 as a sign of engagement in international 
cooperative efforts in the field of human rights, 

 Taking note of the concluding observations of the treaty monitoring bodies 
under the four treaties, the most recent of which were given by the Committee on 
the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in July 2005,7 

 Recalling its resolution 60/173 of 16 December 2005 and Commission on 
Human Rights resolutions 2003/10 of 16 April 2003,8 2004/13 of 15 April 20049 
and 2005/11 of 14 April 2005,10 and mindful of the need for the international 
community to strengthen its coordinated efforts aimed at urging the implementation 
of these resolutions, 

 Taking note of the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human 
rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,11 including the specific 
concerns relating to women’s rights, the rights of the child, the rights of the elderly, 
of persons with disabilities and refugee rights addressed therein,  

 1. Expresses its very serious concern at:  

 (a) The continued refusal of the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea to recognize the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the 
situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea or to extend 
cooperation to him; 

 (b) Continuing reports of systemic, widespread and grave violations of 
human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including: 

 (i) Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, 
public executions, extrajudicial and arbitrary detention, the absence of due 
process and the rule of law, the imposition of the death penalty for political 
reasons, the existence of a large number of prison camps and the extensive use 
of forced labour; 

 (ii) The situation of refugees expelled or returned to the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea and sanctions imposed on citizens of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea who have been repatriated from abroad, such as 
treating their departure as treason, leading to punishments of internment, 
torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or the death penalty, and urges 
all States to ensure respect for the fundamental principle of non-refoulement; 

 (iii) All-pervasive and severe restrictions on the freedoms of thought, 
conscience, religion, opinion and expression, peaceful assembly and 
association, and on equal access to information and limitations imposed on 
every person who wishes to move freely within the country and travel abroad; 

__________________ 

 6  CEDAW/C/PRK/1. 
 7  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/60/38), part 

two, paras. 26-76. 
 8  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23), 

chap. II, sect. A. 
 9  Ibid., 2004, Supplement No. 3 (E/2004/23), chap. II, sect. A. 
 10  Ibid., 2005, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/2005/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A. 
 11  A/61/349. 



 A/C.3/61/L.37

 

3 06-60054 
 

 (iv) Continuing violation of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of 
women, in particular the trafficking of women for the purpose of prostitution 
or forced marriage, forced abortions, and infanticide of children of repatriated 
mothers, including in police detention centres and camps; 

 (v) Unresolved questions of international concern relating to the abduction 
of foreigners in the form of an enforced disappearance, which violates the 
human rights of the nationals of other sovereign countries; 

 (vi) The violations of economic, social and cultural rights, which have led to 
the severe malnutrition and hardship of the population in the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea; 

 (vii) Continuing reports of violations of the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of persons with disabilities, especially on the use of collective camps 
and of coercive measures that target the rights of persons with disabilities to 
decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children; 

 2. Expresses its strong concern that the Government of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea has not engaged in technical cooperation activities with 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and her Office, despite 
efforts by the High Commissioner to engage in a dialogue with the authorities of the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in this regard; 

 3. Expresses its very deep concern at the precarious humanitarian situation 
in the country, compounded by the mismanagement on the part of the authorities, in 
particular the prevalence of infant malnutrition, which, despite recent progress, 
continues to affect the physical and mental development of a significant proportion 
of children, and urges the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea, in this regard, to facilitate the continued presence of humanitarian 
organizations to ensure that humanitarian assistance is delivered impartially to all 
parts of the country on the basis of need in accordance with humanitarian principles; 

 4. Strongly urges the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea to respect fully all human rights and fundamental freedoms and, in this 
regard, to implement fully the measures set out in the above-mentioned resolutions 
of the General Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights, the 
recommendations addressed to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea by the 
United Nations special procedures and treaty bodies, and to extend its full 
cooperation to the Special Rapporteur, including by granting him full, free and 
unimpeded access to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and to other 
United Nations human rights mechanisms; 

 5. Decides to continue its examination of the situation of human rights in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea at its sixty-second session, and to this 
end, requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the 
situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Special Rapporteur 
to report his findings and recommendations. 

 


