











































Microsoft Word - 0558608e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/60/L.34

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
2 November 2005

Original: English

05-58608 (E)    071105

*0558608*

Sixtieth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 71 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoms

Malaysia:* draft resolution

Human rights and unilateral coercive measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling all its previous resolutions on this subject, the most recent of which
was resolution 59/188 of 20 December 2004, and Commission on Human Rights
resolution 2005/14 of 14 April 2005,1

Reaffirming the pertinent principles and provisions contained in the Charter of
Economic Rights and Duties of States proclaimed by the General Assembly in its
resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, in particular article 32 thereof, in
which it declared that no State may use or encourage the use of economic, political
or any other type of measures to coerce another State in order to obtain from it the
subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,2 submitted pursuant to
Commission on Human Rights resolution 1999/21 of 23 April 1999,3 and the reports
of the Secretary-General on the implementation of resolutions 52/120 of
12 December 19974 and 55/110 of 4 December 2000,5

__________________

* On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries.

1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 3 (E/2005/23),
chap. II, sect. A.

2 E/CN.4/2000/46 and Add.1.
3 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1999, Supplement No. 3 (E/1999/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
4 A/53/293 and Add.1.
5 A/56/207 and Add.1.



2

A/C.3/60/L.34

Recognizing the universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated
character of all human rights, and, in this regard, reaffirming the right to
development as an integral part of all human rights,

Recalling that the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from
14 to 25 June 1993, called upon States to refrain from any unilateral coercive
measure not in accordance with international law and the Charter of the United
Nations that creates obstacles to trade relations among States and impedes the full
realization of all human rights,6

Bearing in mind all the references to this question in the Copenhagen
Declaration on Social Development, adopted by the World Summit for Social
Development on 12 March 1995,7 the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action,
adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995,8 the
Istanbul Declaration on Human Settlements and the Habitat Agenda, adopted by the
second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) on 14 June
1996,9 and their five-year reviews,

Expressing its concern about the negative impact of unilateral coercive
measures on international relations, trade, investment and cooperation,

Expressing its grave concern that, in some countries, the situation of children
is adversely affected by unilateral coercive measures not in accordance with
international law and the Charter that create obstacles to trade relations among
States, impede the full realization of social and economic development and hinder
the well-being of the population in the affected countries, with particular
consequences for women and children, including adolescents,

Deeply concerned that, despite the recommendations adopted on this question
by the General Assembly and recent major United Nations conferences, and
contrary to general international law and the Charter, unilateral coercive measures
continue to be promulgated and implemented with all their negative implications for
the social-humanitarian activities and economic and social development of
developing countries, including their extraterritorial effects, thereby creating
additional obstacles to the full enjoyment of all human rights by peoples and
individuals under the jurisdiction of other States,

Bearing in mind all the extraterritorial effects of any unilateral legislative,
administrative and economic measures, policies and practices of a coercive nature
against the development process and the enhancement of human rights in
developing countries, which create obstacles to the full realization of all human
rights,

Noting the continuing efforts of the open-ended Working Group on the Right
to Development of the Commission on Human Rights, and reaffirming in particular

__________________
6 See A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III, sect. I, para. 31.
7 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995

(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
8 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995

(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
9 Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June

1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.



3

A/C.3/60/L.34

its criteria, according to which unilateral coercive measures are one of the obstacles
to the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development,10

1. Urges all States to refrain from adopting or implementing any unilateral
measures not in accordance with international law and the Charter of the United
Nations, in particular those of a coercive nature with all their extraterritorial effects,
which create obstacles to trade relations among States, thus impeding the full
realization of the rights set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights11
and other international human rights instruments, in particular the right of
individuals and peoples to development;

2. Also urges all States to take steps to avoid and to refrain from adopting
any unilateral measures not in accordance with international law and the Charter
that impede the full achievement of economic and social development by the
population of the affected countries, in particular children and women, that hinder
their well-being and that create obstacles to the full enjoyment of their human
rights, including the right of everyone to a standard of living adequate for their
health and well-being and their right to food, medical care and the necessary social
services, as well as to ensure that food and medicine are not used as tools for
political pressure;

3. Invites all States to consider adopting administrative or legislative
measures, as appropriate, to counteract the extraterritorial applications or effects of
unilateral coercive measures;

4. Rejects unilateral coercive measures with all their extraterritorial effects
as tools for political or economic pressure against any country, in particular against
developing countries, because of their negative effects on the realization of all the
human rights of vast sectors of their populations, in particular children, women and
the elderly;

5. Calls upon Member States that have initiated such measures to commit
themselves to their obligations and responsibilities arising from the international
human rights instruments to which they are party by revoking such measures at the
earliest possible time;

6. Reaffirms, in this context, the right of all peoples to self-determination,
by virtue of which they freely determine their political status and freely pursue their
economic, social and cultural development;

7. Urges the Commission on Human Rights to take fully into account the
negative impact of unilateral coercive measures, including the enactment of national
laws and their extraterritorial application, in its task concerning the implementation
of the right to development;

8. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in
discharging her functions relating to the promotion, realization and protection of the
right to development and bearing in mind the continuing impact of unilateral
coercive measures on the population of developing countries, to give priority to the
present resolution in her annual report to the General Assembly;

__________________
10 Resolution 41/128, annex.
11 Resolution 217 A (III).



4

A/C.3/60/L.34

9. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the
attention of all Member States, to continue to collect their views and information on
the implications and negative effects of unilateral coercive measures on their
populations and to submit an analytical report thereon to the General Assembly at
its sixty-first session, highlighting the practical and preventive measures in this
respect;

10. Decides to examine the question on a priority basis at its sixty-first
session under the sub-item entitled “Human rights questions, including alternative
approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms”.


