






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.2/67/L.34/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
4 December 2012 
 
Original: English 

 

12-62867 (E)    051212     
*1262867*   

Sixty-seventh session 
Second Committee 
Agenda item 20 
Sustainable development 

 
 
 

  Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Belgium, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, 
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, 
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, 
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Malta, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Nauru, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Serbia, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania and 
United States of America: revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Entrepreneurship for development 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Reaffirming the commitments to development and poverty eradication 
emanating from the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 and the commitments 
made at the 2005 World Summit,2 the 2010 High-level Meeting of the General 
Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,3 and other major United Nations 
summits, conferences and special sessions,  

 Welcoming the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development, entitled “The future we want”,4 and recognizing the 
potential of entrepreneurship to contribute to specific sustainable development 
objectives,  

__________________ 

 1  Resolution 55/2. 
 2  Resolution 60/1. 
 3  Resolution 65/1. 
 4  Resolution 66/288, annex. 



A/C.2/67/L.34/Rev.1  
 

12-62867 2 
 

 Reaffirming the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on 
Financing for Development5 in its holistic approach, and the Doha Declaration on 
Financing for Development: outcome document of the Follow-up International 
Conference on Financing for Development to Review the Implementation of the 
Monterrey Consensus,6  

 Recalling the Istanbul Declaration and Programme of Action for the Least 
Developed Countries for the decade 2011-2020,7 

 Recalling also the Beijing Declaration8 and Platform for Action,9 and the 
agreed conclusions of the Commission on the Status of Women on access and 
participation of women and girls in education, training and science and technology, 
including for the promotion of women’s equal access to full employment and decent 
work, adopted at its fifty-fifth session,10 and stressing that women, particularly in 
developing countries, are important drivers of entrepreneurship, 

 Taking note of the ministerial declaration adopted at the high-level segment of 
the substantive session of 2012 of the Economic and Social Council on “Promoting 
productive capacity, employment and decent work to eradicate poverty in the 
context of inclusive, sustainable and equitable economic growth at all levels for 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals”,11  

 Welcoming the contribution of all relevant stakeholders, including the private 
sector, non-governmental organizations and civil society, to the implementation of 
the outcomes of the United Nations conferences and summits and their reviews in 
the economic, social, environmental and related fields, as well as the realization of 
the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium 
Development Goals,  

 Recognizing the important contribution entrepreneurship can make to 
sustainable development by creating jobs and driving economic growth and 
innovation, improving social conditions and contributing to addressing 
environmental challenges, and stressing the importance of giving appropriate 
consideration to the promotion of entrepreneurship in the context of the discussions 
on the development agenda beyond 2015,  

 1. Emphasizes the need for improved regulatory environments and policy 
initiatives that promote entrepreneurship and foster small and medium-sized 
enterprises, as well as microenterprises, and stresses the positive role entrepreneurship 
plays in driving job creation and expanding opportunities for all, including for 
women and youth;  

__________________ 

 5  Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, 
annex. 

 6  Resolution 63/239, annex. 
 7  Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, 

Turkey, 9-13 May 2011 (United Nations publication, Sales No. 11.II.A.1), chap. II. 
 8  Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations 

publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I. 
 9  Ibid., annex II. 
 10  See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2011, Supplement No. 7 (E/2011/27), 

chap. I, sect. A. 
 11  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/67/3/ 

Rev.1), chap. IV, para. 139. 



 A/C.2/67/L.34/Rev.1
 

3 12-62867 
 

 2. Encourages Governments to take a coordinated and inclusive approach to 
promoting entrepreneurship involving all stakeholders, while noting initiatives of 
civil society, academia and the private sector as important entrepreneurship drivers, 
and to develop policies, taking into account national priorities and circumstances, 
that address the legal, social and regulatory barriers to equal, effective economic 
participation, and stresses the need for a comprehensive approach to entrepreneurship 
that includes support from development partners in the areas of technology transfer 
on favourable terms, including on concessional and preferential terms, as mutually 
agreed, finance and capacity-building, with a focus on education and skills 
development;  

 3. Acknowledges the important role trade plays in enhancing the capacity of 
enterprises, and reaffirms in this regard the critical role that a universal, rules-based, 
open, non-discriminatory and equitable multilateral trading system can play in 
stimulating economic growth and development worldwide, thereby benefiting all 
countries at all stages of development as they advance towards sustainable 
development;  

 4. Emphasizes that partnerships with the private sector play an important 
role in promoting entrepreneurship, generating employment and investment, 
increasing the revenue potential, developing new technologies and innovative 
business models and enabling high, sustained, inclusive and equitable economic 
growth while protecting the rights of workers;  

 5. Invites Member States to strengthen the capacity of domestic financial 
institutions to reach out to those who have no access to banking, insurance and other 
financial services, and encourages them to adopt regulatory and supervisory 
frameworks that facilitate the safe and sound provision of services to such 
populations, increase access to information and promote financial literacy, 
particularly for women;  

 6. Encourages Member States to expand alternative sources of financing 
and diversify the retail financial service system and to include non-traditional 
providers of financial services, such as microcredit and microfinance, and stresses 
the value of a sound regulatory framework in this regard, and also encourages the 
provision of incentives to microfinance institutions that meet national standards for 
delivering sound financial services to the poor, with particular emphasis on women;  

 7. Emphasizes the important role of national efforts aimed at bringing 
informal workers into the formal economy and integrating them into national social 
security systems;  

 8. Recognizes that technological improvement, particularly through the 
diffusion of technology, can provide new opportunities for businesses to improve 
their competitiveness, and in this regard encourages Member States to increase 
cooperation in support of technology exchange and transfer, innovation and 
capacity-building programmes for promoting entrepreneurship;  

 9. Also recognizes the value of teaching entrepreneurial skills at all levels 
of education, ensuring the full and equal participation of women and girls, and 
encourages entrepreneurship education through skills development, capacity-
building, training programmes and business incubators;  



A/C.2/67/L.34/Rev.1  
 

12-62867 4 
 

 10. Acknowledges the role of entrepreneurship in enabling youth to turn their 
creativity, energy and ideas into business opportunities by helping to facilitate their 
entry into the labour market;  

 11. Recognizes that democratic political institutions, transparent and 
accountable public and private entities, effective anti-corruption measures and 
responsible corporate governance are key conditions for making market economies 
and enterprises more responsive to the values and long-term goals of society;  

 12. Acknowledges that the private sector can contribute to the achievement of 
sustainable development and support national regulatory and policy frameworks that 
enable business and industry to advance sustainable development initiatives, taking 
into account the importance of responsible business practices and corporate social 
responsibility; 

 13. Encourages the international community to support the efforts of 
countries to promote entrepreneurship and foster the development of small and 
medium-sized enterprises and microenterprises, taking into account the challenges 
and opportunities of increased trade liberalization;  

 14. Also encourages countries to consider establishing or strengthening 
national centres of excellence in entrepreneurship and similar bodies, and further 
encourages cooperation and networking and the sharing of best practices between 
them; 

 15. Calls upon the relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations 
system to further recognize and integrate entrepreneurship in its various forms into 
their policies, programmes and reports, and to support national efforts in this regard, 
as appropriate;  

 16. Requests the President of the General Assembly, at its sixty-seventh 
session, to convene a high-level thematic debate, to be held in plenary meeting, to 
discuss promoting entrepreneurship in the context of sustainable development and 
poverty eradication at the national, regional and international levels, and the role of 
the United Nations and the international community in this regard;  

 17. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-ninth session a report on the progress in implementing the present resolution, 
including highlighting best practices and identifying possible measures which could 
be taken at all levels in support of entrepreneurship.  

 


