






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.4/66/L.11

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
4 November 2011 
 
Original: English 

 

11-58179 (E)    091111 
*1158179*   

Sixty-sixth session 
Special Political and Decolonization Committee  
(Fourth Committee) 
Agenda item 52 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine  
Refugees in the Near East 

 
 
 

  Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Comoros, Cuba, Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Guinea, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, 
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, 
Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Tunisia, 
United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Yemen and Palestine: 
draft resolution 
 
 

  Operations of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 194 (III) of 11 December 1948, 212 (III) of 
19 November 1948, 302 (IV) of 8 December 1949 and all subsequent related 
resolutions, including its resolution 65/100 of 10 December 2010, 

 Recalling also the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 

 Having considered the report of the Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East covering 
the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010,1 

 Taking note of the letter dated 22 June 2011 from the Chair of the Advisory 
Commission of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees 
in the Near East to the Commissioner-General,2 

 Deeply concerned about the critical financial situation of the Agency, caused 
in part by the structural underfunding of the Agency, as well as its rising 
expenditures resulting from the deterioration of the socio-economic and 
humanitarian conditions and the instability in the region and their significant 

__________________ 

 1  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/66/13); and 
ibid., Supplement No. 13A (A/66/13/Add.1). 

 2  Ibid., pp. vi and vii. 



A/C.4/66/L.11  
 

11-58179 2 
 

negative impact on the provision of necessary Agency services to the Palestine 
refugees, including its emergency-related and development programmes, 

 Recalling Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations,3 

 Recalling also the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated 
Personnel,4 

 Affirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection 
of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,5 to the Palestinian territory 
occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem, 

 Aware of the continuing needs of the Palestine refugees in all fields of 
operation, namely, Jordan, Lebanon, the Syrian Arab Republic and the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory, 

 Gravely concerned about the extremely difficult socio-economic conditions 
being faced by the Palestine refugees in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, 
including East Jerusalem, particularly in the refugee camps in the Gaza Strip, as a 
result of the continuing prolonged Israeli closures, the construction of settlements 
and the wall, and the severe economic and movement restrictions that in effect 
amount to a blockade, which have deepened unemployment and poverty rates 
among the refugees, 

 Gravely concerned also about the continuing negative repercussions of the 
military operations in the Gaza Strip between December 2008 and January 2009, 
which caused extensive loss of life and injury, particularly among Palestinian 
civilians, including children and women; widespread destruction and damage to 
Palestinian homes, properties, vital infrastructure and public institutions, including 
hospitals, schools and United Nations facilities; and internal displacement of 
civilians, including refugees, 

 Commending the extraordinary efforts by the Agency to provide emergency 
relief, medical, food, shelter and other humanitarian assistance to needy and 
displaced families in the Gaza Strip, 

 Recalling, in this regard, its resolution ES-10/18 of 16 January 2009 and 
Security Council resolution 1860 (2009) of 8 January 2009, 

 Expressing regret over the continued restrictions that impede the Agency’s 
efforts to repair and rebuild thousands of damaged or destroyed refugee shelters, 
and calling upon Israel to ensure the unimpeded import of essential construction 
materials into the Gaza Strip, while taking note of recent developments regarding 
the situation of access there, 

 Expressing concern about the severe classroom shortage in the Gaza Strip and 
the consequent negative impact on the right to education of refugee children as a 
result of the constraints on the ability of the Agency to construct new schools due to 
Israel’s ongoing restrictions impeding the entry of necessary construction materials 
into the Gaza Strip, 

__________________ 

 3  Resolution 22 A (I). 
 4  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2051, No. 35457. 
 5  Ibid., vol. 75, No. 973. 



 A/C.4/66/L.11
 

3 11-58179 
 

 Stressing the urgent need for the advancement of reconstruction in the Gaza 
Strip, including through the completion of suspended projects managed by the 
Agency, and for the accelerated implementation of other urgent United Nations-led 
civilian reconstruction activities, 

 Urging the continuing disbursement of pledges made at the International 
Conference in Support of the Palestinian Economy for the Reconstruction of Gaza, 
held in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on 2 March 2009, to accelerate the reconstruction 
process, 

 Noting with appreciation the completion of the first phase of the project to 
rebuild the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp, commending the Government of Lebanon, 
donors, the Agency and other concerned parties for the important progress made and 
for the continuing efforts to assist affected and displaced refugees, and emphasizing 
the need for additional funding to complete the reconstruction of the camp and end 
the displacement of its 27,000 residents without delay, 

 Aware of the valuable work done by the Agency in providing protection to the 
Palestinian people, in particular Palestine refugees, 

 Deploring the endangerment of the safety of the Agency’s staff and the 
damage and destruction caused to the facilities and properties of the Agency, 
including damage caused to the Agency’s “Summer Games” recreational properties, 
during the reporting period, 

 Deploring also, in particular, the extensive damage and destruction of Agency 
facilities in the Gaza Strip caused during the military operations between December 
2008 and January 2009, including schools where civilians were sheltered and the 
Agency’s main compound and warehouse, as reported in the summary by the 
Secretary-General of the report of the Board of Inquiry6 and in the report of the 
United Nations Fact-finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict,7 

 Deploring further, in this regard, the breaches of the inviolability of United 
Nations premises, the failure to accord the property and assets of the Organization 
immunity from any form of interference and the failure to protect United Nations 
personnel, premises and property, 

 Deploring the killing and injury of Agency staff members by the Israeli 
occupying forces in the Occupied Palestinian Territory since September 2000, 

 Deploring also the killing and wounding of refugee children in the Agency 
schools by the Israeli occupying forces during the military operations between 
December 2008 and January 2009, 

 Deeply concerned about the continuing imposition of restrictions on the 
freedom of movement and access of the Agency’s staff, vehicles and goods, and the 
injury, harassment and intimidation of the Agency’s staff, which undermine and 
obstruct the work of the Agency, including its ability to provide essential basic and 
emergency services, 

 Aware of the agreement between the Agency and the Government of Israel, 

__________________ 

 6  See A/63/855-S/2009/250. 
 7  A/HRC/12/48. 



A/C.4/66/L.11  
 

11-58179 4 
 

 Taking note of the agreement reached on 24 June 1994, embodied in an 
exchange of letters between the Agency and the Palestine Liberation Organization,8 

 1. Reaffirms that the effective functioning of the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East remains essential in all fields 
of operation; 

 2. Expresses its appreciation to the Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, as well as 
to all of the staff of the Agency, for their tireless efforts and valuable work, 
particularly in the light of the difficult conditions and unstable circumstances faced 
during the past year; 

 3. Expresses special commendation to the Agency for the essential role that 
it has played for over sixty years since its establishment in providing vital services 
for the well-being, human development and protection of the Palestine refugees and 
the amelioration of their plight; 

 4. Expresses its appreciation for the important support provided by the host 
Governments to the Agency in the discharge of its duties; 

 5. Expresses its appreciation to the Advisory Commission of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, and 
requests it to continue its efforts and to keep the General Assembly informed of its 
activities; 

 6. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Working Group on the 
Financing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in 
the Near East9 and the efforts to assist in ensuring the financial security of the 
Agency, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary services and 
assistance to the Working Group for the conduct of its work; 

 7. Commends the Agency’s six-year Medium-Term Strategy, which 
commenced in January 2010, and the continuing efforts of the Commissioner-
General to increase the budgetary transparency and efficiency of the Agency, as 
reflected in the Agency’s programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013;10 

 8. Also commends the Agency for sustaining its reform efforts, and urges it 
to continue to apply maximum efficiency procedures to reduce operational and 
administrative costs and to maximize the use of resources; 

 9. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on 
the strengthening of the management capacity of the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East,11 and further urges all 
Member States to carefully consider its proposal for support by the Secretary-
General of the institutional strengthening of the Agency through the provision of 
financial resources from the regular budget of the United Nations; 

__________________ 

 8  Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 13 (A/49/13), 
annex I. 

 9  A/66/520. 
 10  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 13A 

(A/66/13/Add.1). 
 11  A/65/705. 



 A/C.4/66/L.11
 

5 11-58179 
 

 10. Endorses the efforts of the Commissioner-General to continue to provide 
humanitarian assistance, as far as practicable, on an emergency basis, and as a 
temporary measure, to persons in the area who are internally displaced and in 
serious need of continued assistance as a result of recent crises in the Agency’s 
fields of operation; 

 11. Welcomes the progress made thus far by the Agency in rebuilding the 
Nahr el-Bared refugee camp in northern Lebanon, and calls for the expeditious 
completion of its reconstruction, for the continued provision of relief assistance to 
those displaced following its destruction in 2007 and for the alleviation of their 
ongoing suffering through the fulfilment of pledges made at the International Donor 
Conference for the Recovery and Reconstruction of the Nahr el-Bared Palestine 
Refugee Camp and Conflict-affected Areas of Northern Lebanon, held in Vienna on 
23 June 2008; 

 12. Encourages the Agency, in close cooperation with other relevant United 
Nations entities, to continue making progress in addressing the needs and rights of 
children, women and persons with disabilities in its operations in accordance with 
the Convention on the Rights of the Child,12 the Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Discrimination against Women,13 and the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities,14 respectively; 

 13. Commends, in this regard, the Agency’s “Summer Games” initiative 
providing recreational, cultural and educational activities for children in the Gaza 
Strip and, recognizing its positive contribution, calls for full support of the 
initiative; 

 14. Expresses concern about the relocation of the international staff of the 
Agency from its headquarters in Gaza City and the disruption of operations at the 
headquarters due to the deterioration and instability of the situation on the ground; 

 15. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to comply fully with the 
provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons 
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949;5 

 16. Also calls upon Israel to abide by Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the 
Charter of the United Nations and the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities 
of the United Nations3 in order to ensure the safety of the personnel of the Agency, 
the protection of its institutions and the safeguarding of the security of its facilities 
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem; 

 17. Urges the Government of Israel to expeditiously reimburse the Agency 
for all transit charges incurred and other financial losses sustained as a result of 
delays and restrictions on movement and access imposed by Israel; 

 18. Calls upon Israel particularly to cease obstructing the movement and 
access of the staff, vehicles and supplies of the Agency and to cease the levying of 
taxes, extra fees and charges, which affect the Agency’s operations detrimentally; 

 19. Reiterates its call upon Israel to fully lift the restrictions impeding the 
import of necessary construction materials and supplies for the reconstruction and 

__________________ 

 12  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
 13  Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 
 14  Resolution 61/106, annex I. 



A/C.4/66/L.11  
 

11-58179 6 
 

repair of thousands of damaged or destroyed refugee shelters, and for the 
implementation of suspended civilian infrastructure projects in refugee camps in the 
Gaza Strip, while noting the commencement of several projects in this regard; 

 20. Requests the Commissioner-General to proceed with the issuance of 
identification cards for Palestine refugees and their descendants in the Occupied 
Palestinian Territory; 

 21. Notes with appreciation the progress made by the Agency in the 
modernization of its archives through the Palestine Refugee Records Project, 
including the completion of phase I, and encourages the Commissioner-General to 
finalize the remaining components of the Project as rapidly as possible and to report 
on the progress made to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session; 

 22. Also notes with appreciation the success of the Agency’s microfinance 
programme, and calls upon the Agency, in close cooperation with the relevant 
agencies, to continue to contribute to the development of the economic and social 
stability of the Palestine refugees in all fields of operation; 

 23. Reiterates its appeals to all States, the specialized agencies and 
non-governmental organizations to continue and to augment the special allocations 
for grants and scholarships for higher education to Palestine refugees in addition to 
their contributions to the regular budget of the Agency and to contribute to the 
establishment of vocational training centres for Palestine refugees, and requests the 
Agency to act as the recipient and trustee for the special allocations for grants and 
scholarships; 

 24. Urges all States, the specialized agencies and non-governmental 
organizations to continue and to increase their contributions to the Agency in order 
to address the serious financial constraints and underfunding, especially with respect 
to the Agency’s regular budget deficit, noting that financial shortfalls have been 
exacerbated by the current humanitarian situation on the ground that has resulted in 
rising expenditures, in particular with regard to emergency services, and to support 
the Agency’s valuable and necessary work in assisting the Palestine refugees in all 
fields of operation. 

 


