











































Microsoft Word - 0554602e.doc


United Nations A/C.1/60/L.10*

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
17 October 2005

Original: English

05-54602* (E)    171005

*0554602*

Sixtieth session
First Committee
Agenda item 87
Prohibition of the development and manufacture
of new types of weapons of mass destruction
and new systems of such weapons: report of
the Conference on Disarmament

Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Georgia, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russian Federation,
Tajikistan, Ukraine and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of): draft resolution

Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of
weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons:
report of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the prohibition of the development and
manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such
weapons,

Recalling also its resolutions 51/37 of 10 December 1996, 54/44 of
1 December 1999 and 57/50 of 22 November 2002 relating to the prohibition of the
development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new
systems of such weapons,

Recalling further paragraph 77 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly,1

Determined to prevent the emergence of new types of weapons of mass
destruction that have characteristics comparable in destructive effect to those of
weapons of mass destruction identified in the definition of weapons of mass
destruction adopted by the United Nations in 1948,2

Noting the desirability of keeping the matter under review, as appropriate,

                                                        
* Reissued for technical reasons.
1 Resolution S-10/2.
2 The definition was adopted by the Commission for Conventional Armaments (see

S/C.3/32/Rev.1).



2

A/C.1/60/L.10

1. Reaffirms that effective measures should be taken to prevent the
emergence of new types of weapons of mass destruction;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament, without prejudice to further
overview of its agenda, to keep the matter under review, as appropriate, with a view
to making, when necessary, recommendations on undertaking specific negotiations
on identified types of such weapons;

3. Calls upon all States, immediately following any recommendations of the
Conference on Disarmament, to give favourable consideration to those
recommendations;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this item by the General
Assembly at its sixtieth session;

5. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report the results of any
consideration of the matter in its annual reports to the General Assembly;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session the
item entitled “Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of
weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons: report of the
Conference on Disarmament”.


