






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.1/62/L.9

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
17 October 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-54764 (E)    181007     
*0754764* 

Sixty-second session 
First Committee 
Agenda item 98 (k) 
General and complete disarmament: towards a nuclear- 
weapon-free world: accelerating the implementation of 
nuclear disarmament commitments 

 
 
 

  Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and Sweden: 
draft resolution 
 
 

  Towards a nuclear-weapon-free world: accelerating the 
implementation of nuclear disarmament commitments 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 61/65 of 6 December 2006,  

 Expressing its grave concern at the danger to humanity posed by the 
possibility that nuclear weapons could be used, 

 Reaffirming that nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation are 
mutually reinforcing processes requiring urgent irreversible progress on both fronts, 

 Recalling the decisions and the resolution on the Middle East of the 1995 
Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons1 and the Final Document of the 2000 Review 
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons,2  

 Recalling also the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon States to 
accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals, leading to nuclear 
disarmament, in accordance with commitments made under article VI of the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,3 

__________________ 

 1  See 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.1995/32 (Part I) and Corr.2), annex. 

 2  2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons, Final Document, vols. I-III (NPT/CONF.2008/28 (Parts I-IV)). 

 3  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485. 



A/C.1/62/L.9  
 

07-54764 2 
 

 Urging States parties to exert all possible efforts to ensure a successful and 
productive preparatory process for the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, 

 1. Welcomes the first session of the Preparatory Committee for the 2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons, held in Vienna from 30 April to 11 May 2007, and looks forward to a 
constructive and successful preparatory process leading to the 2010 Review 
Conference which should contribute to strengthening the Treaty and achieving its 
full implementation and universality;  

 2. Continues to emphasize the central role of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons3 and its universality in achieving nuclear 
disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation, and calls upon all States parties to 
respect their obligations; 

 3. Reaffirms that the outcome of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties 
to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons sets out the agreed 
process for systematic and progressive efforts towards nuclear disarmament;2 

 4. Reiterates its call upon the nuclear-weapon States to accelerate the 
implementation of the practical steps towards nuclear disarmament that were agreed 
upon at the 2000 Review Conference, thereby contributing to a safer world for all; 

 5. Calls upon all States to comply fully with all commitments made 
regarding nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation and not to act in any 
way that may compromise either cause or that may lead to a new nuclear arms race; 

 6. Again calls upon all States parties to spare no effort to achieve the 
universality of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and urges 
India, Israel and Pakistan, which are not yet parties to the Treaty, to accede to it as 
non-nuclear-weapon States promptly and without conditions; 

 7. Urges the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to rescind its 
announced withdrawal from the Treaty; 

 8. Recognizes the vital importance of the early entry into force of the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty to the achievement of nuclear disarmament 
and nuclear non-proliferation and takes note of the Final Declaration and Measures 
to promote its entry into force, adopted by consensus at the Fifth Conference on 
Facilitating the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, 
held in Vienna on 17 and 18 September 2007; 

 9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session the 
item entitled “Towards a nuclear-weapon-free world: accelerating the 
implementation of nuclear disarmament commitments” and to review the 
implementation of the present resolution at that session. 

 


