











































Microsoft Word - 0556149e.doc


United Nations A/C.1/60/L.26/Rev.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
20 October 2005

Original: English

05-56149 (E)    201005

*0556149*

s

Sixtieth session
First Committee
Agenda item 103
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty

Andorra, Australia, Czech Republic, Finland, Mexico, New Zealand and South
Africa: revised draft resolution

Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty

The General Assembly,

Reiterating that the cessation of nuclear-weapon test explosions or any other
nuclear explosions constitutes an effective nuclear disarmament and non-
proliferation measure, and convinced that this is a meaningful step in the realization
of a systematic process to achieve nuclear disarmament,

Recalling that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, adopted by its
resolution 50/245 of 10 September 1996, was opened for signature on 24 September
1996,

Stressing that a universal and effectively verifiable Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty constitutes a fundamental instrument in the field of nuclear
disarmament and non-proliferation,

Encouraged by the signing of the Treaty by one hundred and seventy-six
States, including forty-one of the forty-four needed for its entry into force, and
welcoming the ratification of one hundred and twenty-five States, including thirty-
three of the forty-four needed for its entry into force, among which there are three
nuclear-weapon States,

Recalling its resolution 59/109 of 3 December 2004,

Welcoming the Final Declaration of the fourth Conference on Facilitating the
Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, held in New York
from 21 to 23 September 2005,1 pursuant to article XIV of the Treaty,

1. Stresses the importance and urgency of signature and ratification, without
delay and without conditions, to achieve the earliest entry into force of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty;

__________________
1 CTBT-Art. XIV/2005/6, annex.



2

A/C.1/60/L.26/Rev.1

2. Welcomes the contributions by the States signatories to the work of the
Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
Organization, in particular its efforts to ensure that the Treaty’s verification regime
will be capable of meeting the verification requirements of the Treaty upon its entry
into force, in accordance with article IV of the Treaty;

3. Underlines the need to maintain momentum towards completion of the
verification regime;

4. Urges all States to maintain their moratoriums on nuclear-weapons test
explosions or any other nuclear explosions and to refrain from acts that would
defeat the object and purpose of the Treaty;

5. Urges all States that have not yet signed the Treaty to sign and ratify it as
soon as possible;

6. Urges all States that have signed but not yet ratified the Treaty, in
particular those whose ratification is needed for its entry into force, to accelerate
their ratification processes with a view to their earliest successful conclusion;

7. Urges all States to remain seized of the issue at the highest political
level;

8. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Preparatory
Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization, to
prepare a report on the efforts of States that have ratified the Treaty towards its
universalization and possibilities for providing assistance on ratification procedures
to States that so request it, and to submit such a report to the General Assembly at
its sixty-first session;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the
item entitled “Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty”.


