












































United Nations A/C.1/56/L.1/Rev.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
10 October 2001
English
Original: Russian

01-60949 (E)    301001    301001
*0160949*

Fifty-sixth session
First Committee
Agenda item 74 (e)
General and complete disarmament: preservation of
and compliance with the Treaty on the Limitation of
Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems

Belarus, China, Fiji and Russian Federation: revised draft resolution

Preservation of and compliance with the Treaty on the Limitation
of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 50/60 of 12 December 1995 and 52/30 of 9 December
1997 on compliance with arms limitation and disarmament and non-proliferation
agreements and its resolutions 54/54 A of 1 December 1999 and 55/33 B of 20
November 2000 on preservation of and compliance with the Treaty on the
Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems,1

Recognizing the historical role of the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic
Missile Systems of 26 May 1972 between the United States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as a cornerstone for maintaining global peace
and security and strategic stability, and reaffirming its continued validity and
relevance, especially in the current international situation,

Stressing the paramount importance of full and strict compliance with the
Treaty by the parties,

Recalling that the provisions of the Treaty are intended as a contribution to the
creation of more favourable conditions for further negotiations on limiting strategic
arms,

Mindful of the obligations of the parties to the Treaty under article VI of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,2

                                                         
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 944, No. 13446.
2 Ibid., vol. 729, No. 10485.



2

A/C.1/56/L.1/Rev.1

Concerned that the implementation of any measures undermining the purposes
and provisions of the Treaty affects not only the security interests of the parties, but
also those of the whole international community,

Recalling the widespread concern about the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction and their means of delivery,

1. Calls for continued efforts to strengthen the Treaty on the Limitation of
Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems1 and to preserve its integrity and validity so that it
remains a cornerstone in maintaining global strategic stability and world peace and
in promoting further strategic nuclear arms reductions;

2. Calls also for renewed efforts by each of the States parties to preserve
and strengthen the Treaty through full and strict compliance;

3. Calls upon the parties to the Treaty, in accordance with their obligations
under the Treaty, to limit the deployment of anti-ballistic missile systems, to refrain
from the deployment of anti-ballistic missile systems for the defence of the territory
of their country, not to provide a base for such a defence and not to transfer to other
States or deploy outside their national territory anti-ballistic missile systems or their
components limited by the Treaty;

4. Considers that the implementation of any measure undermining the
purposes and the provisions of the Treaty also undermines global strategic stability
and world peace and the promotion of further strategic nuclear arms reductions;

5. Urges all Member States to support efforts aimed at stemming the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery;

6. Supports further efforts by the international community, in the light of
emerging developments, towards safeguarding the inviolability and integrity of the
Treaty, which is in the strongest interest of the international community;

7. Welcomes the ongoing dialogue between the Russian Federation and the
United States of America on a new strategic framework premised on openness,
mutual confidence and real opportunities for cooperation, which is of paramount
importance, especially in a changing security environment, and hopes that this
dialogue will successfully lead to substantial reductions in offensive nuclear forces
and contribute to the maintenance of international stability;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-seventh session
the item entitled “Preservation of and compliance with the Treaty on the Limitation
of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems”.


