











































Microsoft Word - 0560546e.doc


United Nations A/C.3/60/L.52/Rev.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: Limited
15 November 2005

Original: English

05-60546 (E)    161105

*0560546*

Sixtieth session
Third Committee
Agenda item 71 (b)
Human rights questions: human rights questions, including
alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoms

Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,
Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China,
Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Djibouti, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Haiti, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Lithuania, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritius, Mexico, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovenia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zambia and
Zimbabwe: revised draft resolution

The right to food

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 59/202 of 20 December 2004, as well as all
Commission on Human Rights resolutions in this regard, in particular resolution
2005/18 of 14 April 2005,1

Recalling also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,2 which provides
that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for her or his health and

__________________
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 3 (E/2005/23

(Part I)), chap. II, sect. A.
2 Resolution 217 A (III).



2

A/C.3/60/L.52/Rev.1

well-being, including food, the Universal Declaration on the Eradication of Hunger
and Malnutrition3 and the United Nations Millennium Declaration,4

Recalling further the provisions of the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights,5 in which the fundamental right of every person to be
free from hunger is recognized,

Bearing in mind the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the World
Food Summit Plan of Action6 and the Declaration of the World Food Summit: five
years later, adopted in Rome on 13 June 2002,7

Welcoming the concrete recommendations contained in the Voluntary
Guidelines to Support the Progressive Realization of the Right to Adequate Food in
the Context of National Food Security, adopted by the Council of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,

Reaffirming that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and
interrelated,

Reaffirming also that a peaceful, stable and enabling political, social and
economic environment, at both the national and the international levels, is the
essential foundation that will enable States to give adequate priority to food security
and poverty eradication,

Reiterating, as in the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the
Declaration of the World Food Summit: five years later, that food should not be used
as an instrument of political or economic pressure, and reaffirming in this regard the
importance of international cooperation and solidarity, as well as the necessity of
refraining from unilateral measures that are not in accordance with international law
and the Charter of the United Nations and that endanger food security,

Convinced that each State must adopt a strategy consistent with its resources
and capacities to achieve its individual goals in implementing the recommendations
contained in the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the World Food
Summit Plan of Action and, at the same time, cooperate regionally and
internationally in order to organize collective solutions to global issues of food
security in a world of increasingly interlinked institutions, societies and economies
where coordinated efforts and shared responsibilities are essential,

Recognizing that the problems of hunger and food insecurity have global
dimensions and that they are likely to persist and even to increase dramatically in
some regions unless urgent, determined and concerted action is taken, given the
anticipated increase in the world’s population and the stress on natural resources,

Expressing its deep concern at the number and scale of natural disasters,
diseases and pests and their increasing impact in recent years, which have resulted

__________________
3 Report of the World Food Conference, Rome, 5-16 November 1974 (United Nations publication,

Sales No. E.75.II.A.3), chap. I.
4 See resolution 55/2.
5 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
6 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit,

13-17 November 1996 (WFS 96/REP), part one, appendix.
7 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit:

five years later, 10-13 June 2002, part one, appendix; see also A/57/499, annex.



3

A/C.3/60/L.52/Rev.1

in a massive loss of life and livelihood and threatened agricultural production and
food security, in particular in developing countries,

Stressing the importance of reversing the continuing decline of official
development assistance devoted to agriculture, both in real terms and as a share of
total official development assistance,

1. Reaffirms that hunger constitutes an outrage and a violation of human
dignity and therefore requires the adoption of urgent measures at the national,
regional and international levels for its elimination;

2. Also reaffirms the right of everyone to have access to safe and nutritious
food, consistent with the right to adequate food and the fundamental right of
everyone to be free from hunger, so as to be able to fully develop and maintain their
physical and mental capacities;

3. Considers it intolerable that there are about 852 million undernourished
people in the world, that every five seconds a child under the age of 5 dies from
hunger or hunger-related diseases somewhere in the world, when, according to the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the planet could produce
enough food to provide 2,100 kilocalories per person per day to 12 billion people,
twice the world’s present population;

4. Expresses its concern that women are disproportionately affected by
hunger, food insecurity and poverty, in part as a result of gender inequality and
discrimination, that in many countries, girls are twice as likely as boys to die from
malnutrition and preventable childhood diseases, and that it is estimated that almost
twice as many women as men suffer from malnutrition;

5. Encourages all States to take action to address gender inequality and
discrimination against women, in particular where it contributes to the malnutrition
of women and girls, including measures to ensure the full and equal realization of
the right to food and ensuring that women have equal access to resources, including
income, land and water, to enable them to feed themselves and their families;

6. Encourages the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights
on the right to food to continue mainstreaming a gender perspective in the fulfilment
of his mandate, and encourages the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations and all other United Nations bodies and mechanisms addressing the right to
food and food insecurity to integrate a gender perspective into their relevant
policies, programmes and activities;

7. Encourages all States to take steps with a view to achieving
progressively the full realization of the right to food, including steps to promote the
conditions for everyone to be free from hunger and, as soon as possible, to enjoy
fully the right to food, and to create and adopt national plans to combat hunger;

8. Acknowledges that many indigenous organizations and representatives of
indigenous communities have expressed in different forums their deep concerns
over the obstacles and challenges for their full enjoyment of the right to food, and
calls upon States to take special actions to combat the root causes of the
disproportionately high level of hunger and malnutrition among indigenous peoples
and the pervasive discrimination against them;



4

A/C.3/60/L.52/Rev.1

9. Requests all States and private actors, as well as international
organizations within their respective mandates, to take fully into account the need to
promote the effective realization of the right to food for all, including in the ongoing
negotiations in different fields;

10. Stresses the need to make efforts to mobilize and optimize the allocation
and utilization of technical and financial resources from all sources, including
external debt relief for developing countries, and to reinforce national actions to
implement sustainable food security policies;

11. Recalls the importance of the New York Declaration on Action against
Hunger and Poverty, which has been supported by more than one hundred countries
to date, and recommends the continuation of efforts aimed at identifying additional
sources of financing for the fight against hunger and poverty;

12. Recognizes that the promises made at the World Food Summit in 1996 to
halve the number of persons who are undernourished are not being fulfilled, and
invites once again all international financial and developmental institutions, as well
as the relevant United Nations agencies and funds, to give priority to and provide
the necessary funding to realize the aim of halving by 2015 the proportion of people
who suffer from hunger, as well as the right to food as set out in the Rome
Declaration on World Food Security6 and the United Nations Millennium
Declaration;4

13. Urges States to give adequate priority in their development strategies and
expenditures to the realization of the right to food;

14. Stresses the importance of international development cooperation and
assistance, in particular in emergency situations such as natural and man-made
disasters, diseases and pests, for the realization of the right to food and the
achievement of sustainable food security, while recognizing that each country has
the primary responsibility for ensuring the implementation of national programmes
and strategies in this regard;

15. Calls upon Member States, the United Nations system and other relevant
stakeholders to support national efforts aimed at responding rapidly to the food
crises currently occurring across Africa;

16. Invites all relevant international organizations, including the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund, to promote policies and projects that have a
positive impact on the right to food, to ensure that partners respect the right to food
in the implementation of common projects, to support Member States strategies
aimed at the fulfilment of the right to food and to avoid any actions that could have
a negative impact on the realization of the right to food;

17. Takes note of the interim report of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on the right to food,8 and also takes note of his
valuable work in the promotion of the right to food;

__________________
8 See A/60/350.



5

A/C.3/60/L.52/Rev.1

18. Supports the realization of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur as
extended by the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 2003/25 of 22 April
2003;9

19. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights to provide all the necessary human and financial
resources for the effective fulfilment of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur;

20. Welcomes the work already done by the Committee on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights in promoting the right to adequate food, in particular its general
comment No. 12 (1999) on the right to adequate food (article 11 of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), in which the Committee
affirmed, inter alia, that the right to adequate food is indivisibly linked to the
inherent dignity of the human person and is indispensable for the fulfilment of other
human rights enshrined in the International Bill of Human Rights, and is also
inseparable from social justice, requiring the adoption of appropriate economic,
environmental and social policies, at both the national and the international levels,
oriented to the eradication of poverty and the fulfilment of all human rights for
all;10

21. Recalls general comment No. 15 (2002) of the Committee on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights on the right to water (articles 11 and 12 of the Covenant),
in which the Committee noted, inter alia, the importance of ensuring sustainable
water resources for human consumption and agriculture in realization of the right to
adequate food;11

22. Welcomes the adoption by the Council of the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations of the Voluntary Guidelines to Support the
Progressive Realization of the Right to Adequate Food in the Context of National
Food Security, which represent a practical tool to promote the realization of the
right to food for all, contribute to the achievement of food security and thus provide
an additional instrument in the attainment of internationally agreed development
goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration;

23. Also welcomes the continued cooperation of the High Commissioner, the
Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Special Rapporteur,
and encourages them to continue their cooperation in this regard;

24. Calls upon all Governments to cooperate with and assist the Special
Rapporteur in his task, to supply all necessary information requested by him and to
give serious consideration to responding favourably to the requests of the Special
Rapporteur to visit their countries to enable him to fulfil his mandate more
effectively;

25. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit a comprehensive report to the
Commission on Human Rights at its sixty-second session and an interim report to
the General Assembly at its sixty-first session on the implementation of the present
resolution;

__________________
9 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 3 (E/2003/23),

chap. II, sect. A.
10 Ibid., 2000, Supplement No. 2 and corrigendum (E/2000/22 and Corr.1), annex V, para. 4.
11 Ibid., 2003, Supplement No. 2 (E/2003/22), annex IV.



6

A/C.3/60/L.52/Rev.1

26. Invites Governments, relevant United Nations agencies, funds and
programmes, treaty bodies and civil society actors, including non-governmental
organizations, as well as the private sector, to cooperate fully with the Special
Rapporteur in the fulfilment of his mandate, inter alia, through the submission of
comments and suggestions on ways and means of realizing the right to food;

27. Decides to continue the consideration of the question at its sixty-first
session under the item entitled “Human rights questions”.


