






















































Etpu


 United Nations  A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
17 November 2008 
 
Original: English 

 

08-60691 (E)    191108     
*0860691* 

Sixty-third session 
Third Committee 
Agenda item 62 (b)  
Elimination of racism and racial discrimination:  
comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action 

 
 
 

  Antigua and Barbuda:* revised draft resolution 
 
 

  Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the 
comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action 
 
 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolution 52/111 of 12 December 1997, in which it had decided 
to convene the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, 
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, and its resolutions 56/266 of 27 March 2002, 
57/195 of 18 December 2002, 58/160 of 22 December 2003, 59/177 of 20 December 
2004 and 60/144 of 16 December 2005, which guided the comprehensive follow-up 
to and effective implementation of the World Conference, and in this regard 
underlining the importance of their full and effective implementation,  

 Recalling also its resolution 61/149 of 19 December 2006, in which it decided 
to convene in 2009 a review conference on the implementation of the Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action,1 hereinafter referred to as the Durban 
Review Conference, to be conducted within the framework of the General 
Assembly, and its resolution 62/220 of 22 December 2007,  

 Noting, in the above context, the decisions adopted by the Preparatory 
Committee for the Durban Review Conference at its organizational session,2 and its 
substantive sessions,3 including its decision PC.1/134 on the objectives of the 

__________________ 

 * On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77 and 
China. 

 1  See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I. 
 2  See A/62/375, annex I. 
 3  See A/63/112, annex I; and A/63/112/Add.1, chap. I. 
 4  See A/62/375, annex I. 



A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1  
 

08-60691 2 
 

Durban Review Conference and decision PC.2/85 on the structure of the outcome 
document of the Conference, 

 Welcoming all the relevant resolutions and decisions of the Commission on 
Human Rights and of the Human Rights Council on this subject, and calling for 
their implementation, 

 Welcoming also Human Rights Council decision 3/1036 of 8 December 2006, 
in which the Council decided to heed the decision and instruction of the 2001 World 
Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related 
Intolerance by establishing the Ad Hoc Committee of the Human Rights Council on 
the Elaboration of Complementary Standards, 

 Reiterating that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights 
and have the potential to contribute constructively to the development and well 
being of their societies, and that any doctrine of racial superiority is scientifically 
false, morally condemnable, socially unjust and dangerous and must be rejected, 
together with theories that attempt to determine the existence of separate human 
races,  

 Convinced that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance manifest themselves in a differentiated manner for women and girls and 
may be among the factors leading to a deterioration in their living conditions, 
poverty, violence, multiple forms of discrimination and the limitation or denial of 
their human rights, and recognizing the need to integrate a gender perspective into 
relevant policies, strategies and programmes of action against racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in order to address multiple 
forms of discrimination,  

 Underlining the primacy of political will, international cooperation and 
adequate funding at the national, regional and international levels for the successful 
implementation of the Durban Programme of Action,  

 Alarmed at the increase in racist violence and xenophobic ideas in many parts 
of the world, in political circles, in the sphere of public opinion and in society at 
large, inter alia, as a result of the resurgent activities of associations established on 
the basis of racist and xenophobic platforms and charters, and the persistent use of 
those platforms and charters to promote or incite racist ideologies,  

 Underlining the importance of urgently eliminating continuing and violent 
trends involving racism and racial discrimination, and conscious that any form of 
impunity for crimes motivated by racist and xenophobic attitudes plays a role in 
weakening the rule of law and democracy, tends to encourage the recurrence of such 
crimes and requires resolute action and cooperation for its eradication,  

 Acknowledging the support rendered by the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to profiling and increasing the visibility of the 
struggle against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance 
and the intention to make this a cross-cutting issue in the activities and programmes 
of the Office of the High Commissioner,  
 

__________________ 

 5  See A/63/112, annex I. 
 6  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 53 

(A/62/53), chap. II, sect. B. 



 A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1
 

3 08-60691 
 

  I 
General principles 
 

 1. Acknowledges that no derogation from the prohibition of racial 
discrimination, genocide, the crime of apartheid or slavery is permitted, as defined 
in the obligations under the relevant human rights instruments; 

 2. Expresses its profound concern about and its unequivocal condemnation 
of all forms of racism and racial discrimination, including related acts of racially 
motivated violence, xenophobia and intolerance, as well as propaganda activities 
and organizations that attempt to justify or promote racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance in any form;  

 3. Expresses deep concern at the attempts to establish hierarchies among 
emerging and resurgent forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
related intolerance, and urges States to adopt measures to address these scourges 
with the same emphasis and vigour with a view to preventing this practice and 
protecting victims;  

 4. Stresses that States and international organizations have a responsibility 
to ensure that measures taken in the struggle against terrorism do not discriminate in 
purpose or effect on grounds of race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin, 
and urges all States to rescind or refrain from all forms of racial profiling;  

 5. Recognizes that States should implement and enforce appropriate and 
effective legislative, judicial, regulatory and administrative measures to prevent and 
protect against acts of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance, thereby contributing to the prevention of human rights violations;  

 6. Also recognizes that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
related intolerance occur on the grounds of race, colour, descent or national or 
ethnic origin and that victims can suffer multiple or aggravated forms of 
discrimination based on other related grounds, such as sex, language, religion, 
political or other opinion, social origin, property, birth or other status;  

 7. Reaffirms that any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that 
constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by 
law;  

 8. Emphasizes that it is the responsibility of States to adopt effective 
measures to combat criminal acts motivated by racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance, including measures to ensure that such 
motivations are considered an aggravating factor for the purposes of sentencing, to 
prevent those crimes from going unpunished and to ensure the rule of law;  

 9. Urges all States to review and, where necessary, revise their immigration 
laws, policies and practices so that they are free of racial discrimination and 
compatible with their obligations under international human rights instruments;  

 10. Condemns the misuse of print, audio-visual and electronic media and 
new communication technologies, including the Internet, to incite violence 
motivated by racial hatred, and calls upon States to take all necessary measures to 
combat this form of racism in accordance with the commitments that they have 
undertaken under the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,1 in particular 
paragraph 147 of the Programme of Action, in accordance with existing 



A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1  
 

08-60691 4 
 

international and regional standards of freedom of expression and taking all 
necessary measures to guarantee the right to freedom of opinion and expression; 

 11. Encourages all States to include in their educational curricula and social 
programmes at all levels, as appropriate, knowledge of and tolerance and respect for 
all cultures, civilizations, religions, peoples and countries;  

 12. Stresses the responsibility of States to mainstream a gender perspective 
in the design and development of prevention, education and protection measures 
aimed at the eradication of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance at all levels, to ensure that they effectively target the distinct situations 
of women and men;  
 

  II 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of  
Racial Discrimination 
 

 13. Reaffirms that universal adherence to and full implementation of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination7 
are of paramount importance for the fight against racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance, including contemporary forms of racism and 
racial discrimination, and for the promotion of equality and non-discrimination in 
the world;  

 14. Expresses grave concern that the universal ratification of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 
was not attained by the year 2005 in accordance with commitments under the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,1 and calls upon those States that 
have not yet done so to accede to the Convention as a matter of urgency;  

 15. Urges, in the above context, the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to maintain and issue regular updates on its 
website of a list of countries that have not yet ratified the Convention and to 
encourage such countries to ratify it at the earliest;  

 16. Expresses its concern at the serious delays in the submission of overdue 
reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, which 
impedes the effectiveness of the Committee, makes a strong appeal to all States 
parties to the Convention to comply with their treaty obligations, and reaffirms the 
importance of the provision of technical assistance to the requesting countries in the 
preparation of their reports to the Committee;  

 17. Invites States parties to the Convention to ratify the amendment to 
article 8 of the Convention on the financing of the Committee, and calls for 
adequate additional resources from the regular budget of the United Nations to 
enable the Committee to discharge its mandate fully;  

 18. Urges all States parties to the Convention to intensify their efforts to 
implement the obligations that they have accepted under article 4 of the Convention, 
with due regard to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights8 and 
article 5 of the Convention;  

__________________ 

 7  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464. 
 8  Resolution 217 A (III). 



 A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1
 

5 08-60691 
 

 19. Welcomes the work of the Committee in applying the Convention to the 
new and contemporary forms of racism and racial discrimination; 

 20. Recalls that the Committee holds that the prohibition of the 
dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or racial hatred is compatible with 
the right to freedom of opinion and expression as outlined in article 19 of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in article 5 of the Convention;  

 21. Welcomes the emphasis placed by the Committee on the importance of 
follow-up to the World Conference and the measures recommended to strengthen the 
implementation of the Convention as well as the functioning of the Committee; 
 

  III 
Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action 
 

 22. Expresses appreciation for the contribution of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to facilitating the participation in and successful 
outcomes of the Durban Review Conference; 

 23. Acknowledges that the outcome of the World Conference against Racism, 
Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance is on an equal footing 
with the outcomes of all the major United Nations conferences, summits and special 
sessions in the human rights and social fields;  

 24. Also acknowledges that the World Conference, which was the third world 
conference against racism, was significantly different from the previous two 
conferences, as evidenced by the inclusion in its title of two important components 
relating to contemporary forms of racism, namely, xenophobia and related 
intolerance;  

 25. Emphasizes that the basic responsibility for effectively combating 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance lies with States, 
and to this end stresses that States have the primary responsibility to ensure full and 
effective implementation of all commitments and recommendations contained in the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action;1  

 26. Reaffirms its commitment to eliminating all forms of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and other forms of related intolerance against 
indigenous peoples, and in this regard notes the attention paid to the objectives of 
combating prejudice and eliminating discrimination and promoting tolerance, 
understanding and good relations among indigenous peoples and all other segments 
of society in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples;9  

 27. Emphasizes the fundamental and complementary role of national human 
rights institutions, regional bodies or centres and civil society, working jointly with 
States towards the achievement of the objectives of the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action; 

 28. Welcomes the steps taken by numerous Governments, in particular the 
elaboration and implementation of national action plans to combat racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and steps taken by national 
human rights institutions and non-governmental organizations, towards the full 

__________________ 

 9  Resolution 61/295, annex. 



A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1  
 

08-60691 6 
 

implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, and affirms 
this trend as a demonstration of commitment for the elimination of all scourges of 
racism at the national level; 

 29. Calls upon all States that have not yet elaborated their national action 
plans on combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance to comply with their commitments undertaken at the World Conference;  

 30. Calls upon all States to formulate and implement without delay, at the 
national, regional and international levels, policies and plans of action to combat 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, including their 
gender-based manifestations;  

 31. Welcomes the adoption of the laudable initiative led by the States 
members of the Caribbean Community and other Member States for the 
establishment of a permanent memorial at the United Nations to the victims of 
slavery and the transatlantic slave trade as a contribution towards the fulfilment of 
paragraph 101 of the Durban Declaration, expresses its appreciation for 
contributions made to the voluntary fund established in this regard, and urges other 
countries to contribute to the fund; 

 32. Urges States to support the activities of existing regional bodies or 
centres that combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance in their respective regions, and recommends the establishment of such 
bodies in all regions where they do not exist;  

 33. Recognizes the fundamental role of civil society in the fight against 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, in particular in 
assisting States to develop regulations and strategies, in taking measures and action 
against such forms of discrimination and through follow-up implementation;  

 34. Decides that the General Assembly, through its role in policy 
formulation, the Economic and Social Council, through its role in overall guidance 
and coordination, in accordance with their respective roles under the Charter of the 
United Nations and Assembly resolution 50/227 of 24 May 1996, and the Human 
Rights Council shall constitute a three-tiered intergovernmental process for the 
comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action; 

 35. Stresses and reaffirms its role as the highest intergovernmental 
mechanism for the formulation and appraisal of policy on matters relating to the 
economic, social and related fields, in accordance with Chapter IX of the Charter, 
including in the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the goals and 
targets set at all the major United Nations conferences, summits and special 
sessions;  

 36. Reaffirms that the Human Rights Council shall continue to have a central 
role in the monitoring of the implementation of the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action within the United Nations system and in advising the General 
Assembly thereon; 

 37. Expresses its appreciation for the continuing work in follow-up to the 
World Conference undertaken by the Intergovernmental Working Group on the 
Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the 
group of independent eminent experts on the implementation of the Durban 



 A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1
 

7 08-60691 
 

Declaration and Programme of Action and the Working Group of Experts on People 
of African Descent;  

 38. Endorses Human Rights Council resolution 9/14 of 24 September 
2008,10 in which the Council decided to extend the mandate of the Working Group 
of Experts on People of African Descent for three years; 

 39. Welcomes the convening of the first part of the first session of the 
Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of Complementary International Standards in 
February 2008, and requests the Ad Hoc Committee, at the second part of its first 
session, to comply, with the mandate established in Council decision 3/103 of 
8 December 2006;6 

 40. Acknowledges the centrality of resource mobilization, effective global 
partnership and international cooperation in the context of paragraphs 157 and 158 
of the Durban Programme of Action for the successful realization of commitments 
undertaken at the World Conference, and to this end emphasizes the importance of 
the mandate of the group of independent eminent experts on the implementation of 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, especially in mobilizing the 
necessary political will for the successful implementation of the Declaration and 
Programme of Action;  

 41. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary resources for the 
effective fulfilment of the mandates of the Intergovernmental Working Group on the 
Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the 
Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent, the group of independent 
eminent experts on the implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme 
of Action, and the Ad Hoc Committee on Complementary International Standards; 

 42. Expresses its concern at the increasing incidence of racism in various 
sporting events, while noting with appreciation the efforts made by some governing 
bodies of the various sporting codes to combat racism, and in this regard invites all 
international sporting bodies to promote, through their national, regional and 
international federations, a world of sport free from racism and racial 
discrimination; 

 43. Welcomes, in this context, the initiative of the Fédération internationale 
de football association to introduce a visible theme on non-racism in football, and 
requests the Fédération to continue with that initiative at the 2010 soccer World Cup 
tournament to be held in South Africa; 

 44. Urges those States that have not yet done so to consider signing and 
ratifying or acceding to the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights 
of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families adopted by the General 
Assembly in 1990;11 
 

__________________ 

 10  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 
(A/63/53/Add.1), chap. I. 

 11  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2220, No. 39481. 



A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1  
 

08-60691 8 
 

  IV 
Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance and follow-up to his visits 
 

 45. Expresses its deep appreciation for the work of the Special Rapporteur 
on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance, and endorses Human Rights Council resolution 7/34 of 28 March 
2008,12 in which the Council decided to extend the mandate of the Special 
Rapporteur for a period of three years;  

 46. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Special Rapporteur on 
contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance13 and encourages Member States and other relevant stakeholders to 
consider implementing the recommendations contained in his report; 

 47. Reiterates its call to all Member States, intergovernmental organizations, 
relevant organizations of the United Nations system and non-governmental 
organizations to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur, and calls upon States 
to consider responding favourably to his requests for visits so as to enable him to 
fulfil his mandate fully and effectively;  

 48. Recognizes with deep concern the increase in anti-Semitism, 
Christianophobia and Islamophobia in various parts of the world, as well as the 
emergence of racial and violent movements based on racism and discriminatory 
ideas directed against Arab, Christian, Jewish and Muslim communities, as well as 
all religious communities, communities of people of African descent, communities 
of people of Asian descent, communities of indigenous people and other 
communities;  

 49. Encourages closer collaboration between the Special Rapporteur and the 
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in particular 
the Anti-Discrimination Unit;  

 50. Urges the High Commissioner to provide States, at their request, with 
advisory services and technical assistance to enable them to implement fully the 
recommendations of the Special Rapporteur;  

 51. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with 
all the necessary human and financial assistance to carry out his mandate efficiently, 
effectively and expeditiously and to enable him to submit a report to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session;  

 52. Requests the Special Rapporteur to continue giving particular attention to 
the negative impact of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance on the full enjoyment of civil, cultural, economic, political and social 
rights by national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, immigrant 
populations, asylum-seekers and refugees;  

 53. Invites Member States to demonstrate greater commitment to fighting 
racism in sport by conducting educational and awareness-raising activities and by 

__________________ 

 12  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), 
chap. II, sect. A. 

 13  See A/63/339. 



 A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1
 

9 08-60691 
 

strongly condemning the perpetrators of racist incidents, in cooperation with 
national and international sports organizations;  
 

  V 
Convening of the Durban Review Conference 
 

 54. Welcomes the reports of the Preparatory Committee for the Durban 
Review Conference on its organizational14 and first15 and second16 substantive 
sessions and endorses the decisions contained therein; 

 55. Calls upon all Member States to participate in the Durban Review 
Conference; 

 56. Welcomes the convening of the Regional Preparatory Meeting to the 
Durban Review Conference for Latin America and the Caribbean, held in Brasília 
from 17 to 19 June 2008, and the Regional Preparatory Meeting for Africa, in Abuja 
from 24 to 26 August 2008, and in this regard takes note of the contributions of 
other regional groups;  

 57. Takes note of the written contributions of all relevant stakeholders 
consistent with the objectives of the Durban Review Conference, in accordance with 
decision PC.1/104 adopted by the Preparatory Committee of the Durban Review 
Conference at its organizational session; 

 58. Recalls Preparatory Committee decision PC.1/13 of 31 August 20074 on 
the objectives of the Durban Review Conference and endorses decision PC.2/85 on 
the structure of the outcome document; 

 59. Reaffirms that the Durban Review Conference will be undertaken on the 
basis of and with full respect for the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action1 
and that there will be no renegotiation of the existing agreements therein, and that 
the issues raised will be in conformity with the contents of the Durban Declaration 
and Programme of Action; 

 60. Endorses decision PC.1/12,4 adopted by the Preparatory Committee at its 
organizational session, on the sources of funding and financial and technical 
assistance, in which the Preparatory Committee decided to recommend to the 
General Assembly to appeal for contributions from extrabudgetary resources to 
cover the cost of participation of representatives of least developed countries in the 
Durban Review Conference, as well as representatives from other developing 
countries, and to request the Secretary-General and the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to undertake initiatives to encourage contributions 
to the voluntary fund;  

 61. Reiterates the decision taken by the Preparatory Committee for the 
Durban Review Conference at its second substantive session to request the General 
Assembly to allocate resources from the regular budget of the United Nations to 
facilitate the participation in the Durban Review Conference of the relevant human 
rights treaty bodies and thematic special procedures and mechanisms of the Human 
Rights Council;5 

__________________ 

 14  A/62/375. 
 15  A/63/112. 
 16  To be issued as A/CONF.211/PC.3/11. 



A/C.3/63/L.51/Rev.1  
 

08-60691 10 
 

 62. Endorses the decisions adopted by the Preparatory Committee for the 
Durban Review Conference at its first and second substantive sessions on the 
continuation of the preparatory process for the Durban Review Conference, as 
contained in its report on its first substantive session and the excerpt from its report 
on its second substantive session;17 
 

  VI 
General 
 

 63. Strongly recommends that no intersessional meetings of the Human 
Rights Council focusing on the follow-up to the World Conference and the 
implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action be so 
scheduled as to clash or overlap with the meetings of the General Assembly during 
which this item is being considered; 

 64. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report with recommendations 
on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its sixty-
fourth session;  

 65. Decides to remain seized of this important matter at its sixty-fourth 
session under the item entitled “Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance”.  

 

__________________ 

 17  A/63/112/Add.1; the report of the Preparatory Committee on its second substantive session will 
be issued in final form as document A/CONF.211/PC.3/11. 


