






































·f

"

NEW Y9RK

2248th
PLENARY MEEnNG

i' • ,. " '. ,;;. .. ~ • io .:. ' '~~: .. ".

Monday, 30 September /974,
at /0.30 a.m,

by ,rule 27 of the rules of procedure. The names of
those!OO M~rnber States are givenin paragraph 4. (a)
of the report. As of 27 September J974, nine e ,::..e
Mem~er S~ates submitted credentials of their repre-
sentatives.indue form. The names of those nine Mem-
ber States appear inparagrapb Softhe.report.
7. The Credentials Committee was invited by the
C~~irman to examine the credentials of the represen-
tanves of the 1'09 Member States, after which the
Committee, by a vote of 5 'to 3, with 1 abstention,
adoptedthe following resolution, which appears in
paragraph 14 of the report:

"The- Credentials Committee

"Accepts those credentials of representatives of.
Member States to the twenty-ninth session of the
General Assembly that have already been submitted
with the exception of the credentials of the repre-
sentatives of South Africa."

8. I have the honour, therefore, to' present to the
General Assembly the foUowingdraftresolution:

"The General Assembly

"Approves the first report of the Credentials
Committee (~9779)."

9. Th~ PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
I shall nowcall on those representatives who have
expressed a wish to speak on the report of the Cre-
dentials 'Committee.

10. Miss BAGAAYA (Uganda): I take the floor
in my capacity as the' Cbairmanof the African group
of-States to Introducedratt resolution'A/L.731, which
calls'upon the Security Council to review therelation-
ship between the United·,Nations and-South 'Africa
in the light of the constant violation by South Africa
of the principles of the Charter and the Universal De-
claration of~uman Rights.

11. Representatives will recall that in this very Hall,
on Ji3 November 1970, we adopted resolution 2636

. (XXV) rejecting the credentials of the Vorster emis-
saries.• The same resolution was reaffil'D1ed by the
Assembly in its resolutipns2862(;,{X,VI),2948 (XXVII)
and 3181(XXVIII). In, spite' of the resolutions lbave
just. quoted, the sameVorster disciples have been
aUo~C?dno~,only to enter, this Assembly, but 21so(0
parucjpate III our deliberations.. ' ,
12. On behalf of the sponsors 'of the draft resolu- .
tion, "I should like to",hail the ·,historie decision of the
Credentials Committee reiectlng the credentials of the
Pretoria regime. 'As far as we ate concerned, the
delegation which occupies the' South African', seat
represents-a minority. Above all, it represents an
op~r.essive white minC?rity and, in our view, 1h~ ,only
legltlmaterepresentatlves of, South Africa•Would, be
nQt the representatives. of that ttiinority()f less than

259 A/PV.2248 andCorr.l

259

Pagt'

CONTENTS

, AGENDA ITEM 3

FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS
· COMMITIEE

• Resumed from the 2233.00 rneetina.
'_' ' ,7." '",'

President: Mr. Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA
(Algeria).

Agenda item 3:
Credentials of representatives to the twenty-ninth session

of the General Assembly (f.'o'''i'nued):
(b) Report of the Credentials Committee

First report of the Credentials Committee ...•.•.•..•.

1. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
The representative of Uganda has asked to speak on
a point of order. '

, ,

2. Mr. KINENE(yganda): Mydel~gation,onapoint
of order, would like to request the immediate dis-.
cussion of the report of the Credentials Committee
[AI9779], as well as draft resolution A/L.731.
3. The, PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
The representative of Uganda has proposed that the
General Assembly should immediately consider the
report of the Credentials Committee. If there is no
obj~ction, we shall proceed immediately .to.examiae
the report of the Credentials Committeeand,in ac-
cordance with the' point of order just raise4,' also
consider draft resolution AIL.731, proposed under
this item. ,

)

4.' I call-upon the Channnan, of the CredentialsCom-
mittee, Mr. Jose D. Ingles of the Philippin~s, topre-
sent the report of that Committee.' '
5. ,Mr." INGLES (Philippines), Chairmah of the
Credentials Committee: I have the honour to SUbmit
for., the consider;dionof, the, ,General Assembly the',
first report of the Credentials Committee [AI9179] ,
dated Z8' September 1974. ' . , '

6. "At" its 64th meeting,'on 27 September" the, Cre-
debtials Committee had before it.a memorandum from,
the Secretary~General, dated 26 September 1914,
stating that as of that date" 100 Member States bad
submitted. the "credentials "of,'their.representative$,
issued either, by the Head of State or Government
or 'by the Miiilstel' for 'Foreign Affairs, as provided

, '.' " ' . !

Credentials of representatives to the twenty-ninth
session of the General Assembly (continued):·

(b) Report of the Credentials Committee
.'"

TW~NTY-NINTH SESSION

Official Records

United Nations

GENERAL
, ASSEMBLY



General Assembly-Twenty..nlnth SessIon-Plenary Meetings260

20 per cent of thepopulation, but the representatives
of the entire population of South Africa. .
13. The regime in Pretoria is an inhuman regime;
It has .arrogantly continued, in flagrant violation Qf"
the principles of the Charter and various resolutions
of the United Nations, to offend our collective inter-
pretation of the democratic principles which include
the right of representation, It has committed count-
less atrocities against the non-white majority in South
Africa. The memory of.Sharpeville, when the Pretoria
regime mercilessly slaughtered peaceful demon-
strators, and of the shooting down of mine 'workers
of the Carletonville mines is still very -fresh in our'
minds. And while our hearts bleed we are constantly
reminded that the regime in Pretoria has not changed
its ways but has in fact become the more determined
to deny the great majority of the people of, South
Africa their basic rights and fundamental freedoms '
by the brutal use of force whenever their whims-tell
them so.
14. There have been two schools of thought .on the
question of South African representation. Some have
argued that South Africa should be retained in, this
Organization with the hope that, given time, wisdom
will prevail over the attitudes and actionS ofthe author-
ities in' Pretoria. But we say-that is, the Organiza-
tion of African Unity [OAU] and the sponsors of this
draft resolution believe and are convinced-e-that the »
time has come for the' issue of the credentials,of South
Africa to, be resolved by the Security Council. We
further believe that the time has come for the South
African regime to be ostracized.
15. To those who belong to the first school ofthought,
namely, those who believe in the retention and con-

'tinuednursing of the Pretoria regime, I would like to
refer them to the' numerous pronouncements of the
General Assembly on this question. In 1970, Mr. Ham-
bro, the President of the twenty-fifth session of the
General Assembly, had this. to say: t '

", . . . I reach the conclusionghat a vote in favour .
of the amendment would mean, on the part of this
Assembly, a very strong condemnation of the poli-
ciespursued by the Government of South,Africa.
It would also constitute a warning to that' Govern-
ment as solemn as-any such warning could be." I

16. Since 1970 that warning has been delivered by
every President of the General Assembly. One can
say that the Hambro formula has become the standard
treatment of the issue of the credentials of the Pretoria
delegation..
17. "In the meantime, the proponents ofapart!zeid
have, with their usual arrogance, brushed' off. the
warning and continued to practice their policies of
race supremacy. How long, may we ask, can the As-
sembly continue to be satisfied with merely warning
the Pretoria reg~me?
18. ' In -calling for the.ostracizing. of, the Govern..
mentof South Africa 'w~ .are convinced' and believe'
thatsuch a step will not only isolate further the regime
in Pretoria, but vyouldalso force a long. overdue;
change, in that country. In the present world of inter..
dependence no ,nation, big otsmall,rich or' poor,
can afford to live in isolation. '
19. The continued illegal occupation dfNamibia';: in
complete" deflanceofall United' Nations resolutions,

is surely grave enough to justify an.immediate review
.of lJte existing relationship between thisOrganiza-
tionand South Africa.
20. 'In submitting this draft resolution, we are aware
that we are calling on this- Assembly to take a bold
decision that calls for extraordinary courage. Such
a decision, no doubt, would set a precedent' and per-
haps frighten other trespassers..But it is a sacred duty
of this Organization and indeed a mandatoryobliga-
tion on us as Members of this Organization to take
such a bold decision in the interests of the ideals
and principles of the Charter .of the United, Nations.
It is only' by having thedeteilt!ination to set such a
precedent that we can truly :justify, and only then
justify, the existence of this Organization.
21. Mr. .oGBU (Nigeria): Mr. President, in a few
days' time '~y Foreign Minister will be paying you
the tribute that you deserve. '
22. On this occasion, I should like to remind mem-
bers that the question of validity of the credentials
of the delegation sent here by the Pretoria regime has
been considered by the General Assembly for almost
a decade. The Assembly has, on several occasions,
rejected those credentials, the last time only a few
months ago at the sixth special session in April-May
this year [resolution 3200 (S-VI)]. •
23. " ,'f.ite question is not whether this' is the delega-
tion which has been sent here by -the Pretoria regime
but whether it is entitled to occupy the seat reserved
in this Assembly for South Africa, a country in the
southern part of Africa with a population of over
20 million, a country which has a right to be properly
represented in international forums. The question
is also whether the, credentials of this delegation of
the Pretoria regime can be accepted as valid in the
light of the provisions of the Charter of the United
Nations, which clearly lay down the obligations of a
Member State.

24. The General Assembly has not only rejected
the •credentials of the delegations of the Pretoria
regime in the past, but has declared, in resolution
3151 G (XXVIII), adopted at the last session, that
"the So.sth African regime has no right ,to 'represent

, the people Of South Africa" ~ The Assembly requested
the specialized agencies and other intergovernmental
organteauonsto deny membership, or privileges of
membership, to the South African regime. In resolu-
tion 3151 D (XXVIII), the Assembly asked the Spe-
cialCommittee on Apartheid to prepare a report on
the violations by South Africa of the Charter, the
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security
Council so that it can consider further, action. The'
Special Committee, of which I have the honour to be
the current Chairmari,completed its report last Friday
and it should be before the dele~ations very.soon.!

25. ,', The General Assembly also adopted. at its last
session, '. the Int~qlational'<;onvention .on the ,~uppres:- '
sion and PUnishment of tbeCrime.QfAparth~id,[reso~",
lution 3068' (XXJllll)].Members. of 'this Assembly
hardlyneed to be remipd,c:dthat tlt~Pretori~ regim,e
is th~',il1ventQr and. tl1e.fo~e,m()si;,prac~itionerotap,al:t- '
held, which has been repeate(ily 'Collde,ronedbythe
Assemblyasa crime agaiiist hurrlan~ty ~. ; . ,,

26. The General Assetrlbty" can, ·tb~refote," do', no
Iess at this 'ses~ion than to reject .: the credentialsof



-
the delegation sent by the Pretoria regime, as recom-
mended by the Credentials Committee, and tell the
representatives of that regime that they have no right
to represent South Afric'a so long" as that regime
remains unrepresentative of the South African people
as a whole and so long as it continues to perpetrate
the crime ofapartheid. '
27. The Pretoria regime has invented the racist
theory that the white people of South Africa consti-
tute a separate nation and that the great majority of
the people of that country constitute, several other
nations as decided by the whiteregim~. It has de-
clared that only the whites can be represented in the
Parliament and in the Government: the great majority
of the people can only aspire to the crumbs doled out
to them by the white regime or seek their destiny in
the patches of land given to them to set up Bantustans.
28. This regime has made it clear that it is the regime
of the whites, not of all the people of South Afnca.
How then can this Assembly or-any ,Member State
accept it as representative of the whole of South
Africa?
29. We are aware that the Pretoria regime has sent
here, for the first time, some people' of other racial
origins as the hangers-on of the delegation.
30. As I said on another occasion, I do not want to
criticize .jhe few people who have shown weakness
during the course of the hard and "qng stmggJ,e for
freedom in South Africa and compromised with the
regime. But I would like to draw the ~ttention of the
Assembly to the fact that those people have no right
to vote for the Parliament in South Africa. Theycannot
be members of the Parliamentor of the Government.
They cannot even spend a night near the Parliament
in Cape Town or the Govemmentoffices in- Pretoria
without special permission from the white regime."
31. Let them go back with the realization that this
Assembly and this Organization will not acquiesce
in discrimination on the basis of colour of skin, but
win redouble its efforts to abolish racism and racial
discrimination. '

32. The Pretoria 'regime has continued' its illegal
occupation of Namibia in defiance of the resolutions
of the General Assembly and the Security Council and
the advisory opinion of the. International Cau-rtof
Justice.? It has sent its forces into Southern Rhodesia
and continues to commit aggression against that Terri-
tory. It has openly violated the mandatory .sanctions
instituted ~by the Security Council against the iUegal
minority racist regime in Salisbury.

33. How then can this' Assembly or' any Mellziber
State accept this regime as the spokesman of one of
the "peace-loving States" whicbare "able and wimng'~
to carry out the obligations containedin. the United
Nations Charter?

34. The question here is not so much a que8~ion of
procedure, Or 'even law, as aquestion 'of' logic and
morality. ' ", .' I

35. I must .confess, that" my delegation was some-
what surprised to learn that even at this session, the
Credentials Committee was not. unanimous' in itsrec-
ommendation ' and that some Member States had
reservations. We are told' that some Member St~tes
want to have the credentials' of the Pretoriaregirrie

261

accepted because they havediplomatiC rebitions with
that regime. All that my delegation can say is that
it is sad enough if those States maintain diplomatic
relations with the Pretoria regime, in contravention
of the requests of the General Assembly. Should they
in addition try to foist the representatives of that
regime on this Assembly?

36. We are also told that it-was wise for the Assem-
blyto accept the representatives of the former regime
of Portugal, and that the Assembly should therefore
acceplthe delegation of the Pretoria regime. My dele-
gation cannot understand the logic,of this argument.
We rejected the rightof the colonial regime in Lisbon
to represent Guinea-Bissau, Angola or Mozambique,
and we thought that all Member States would rec-
ognize that positive changes have come about because
of the struggle of the people of the colonial territories,
supported by this Assembly and by many Member
States, and not because some Member States resisted
action against the colonial regime and showered it
with friendship and material assistance in its criminal
policies.

37. I am reminded of the story of an elderly Senator
who was greeted at a reception with the remark that
he must have seen a lot of changes during his term as
a public official, He replied: "Yeah, and, I've been
agin' all of 'em."

38. , We hope that the delegations which supported
the former regime in Portugal will study the lessons
of recent events and past errors and rethink their
policies. I hate to say, "1. told you so".

~9. By rejecting the credentials of the South African
regime we merely correct an anomaly: we do not
stifle t,be voice of the people of South Mrica.

40. Let the voices of' the liberation movements,
which are the authentic representatives of the great
majority of the people of South Africa, be heard
loud and clear in all international forums.Let the voice
of all-these South Afrieans who detest racism and
pledge their loyalty to the purposes and principles
ofth~ United Nations be heard in these Halls. We will
then be,doing our duty to ensure the fulfilment of the
purposes and principles ofthe United Nations in South
Africa,in the interests of all the people of, South
Africa" irrespective of-race, colour-or creed.

4l., The Assembly has already administered,several
serious, warnings to, the, Pretoria regime by rejecting-
the ,credentials of its delegation. It cannot merely
keep repeating warnings and Withholding fut:ther ac-
tion if its, own credibility is not to be undermined.1l
must take a further step ,at this time, in this Decade'
for Action to COlllbat Racism and Racial Discrimina-
tionwhich was launched on 10 December 1973 [reso-
lution .2919 ,(XXVII)]. .n must invite the Security
Council to consider the situation in the "'light of Ar-
ticles 3 to 6Qf' the Charter0 '

42. ,I ~ight recall thatalrriost 12 years ago"in resolu-
tion 1761' (XVII)of6 November 1962,the'Oeneral
Assembly requested the Security Council' to take
measures to secure South Africa'scompliance with
the resolutions of the General" Assembly and the, Se-
curity Councilon apartheid, and asked it~ ifnecessary,
"to consider action under Article 6 of the Charter".

ca=



45. More than two years have passed since that
resolution and it is high time that the Security Coun-
cil considered the matter again. My delegation be-
lieves that it is high time the Assembly invited the
Security Council to meet its responsibilities under
Article 6 of the Charter in the light of the repeated
declarations by the General Assembly and the Secu-
rity Council that the South African regime has violated
its obligations under the Charter.

46. I would like to conclude by appealing to those
members of the Security Council that have so far
prevented action against apartheid to reconsider their
positions in the light of the continued violations of the
Charter by the South African regime and in the light
of their own obligations as members of the Security
Council. I urge those members, and indeed all mem-
bers of this Assembly, to vote unanimously in favour
of the draft resolution so ably introduced by the For-
eign Minister of Uganda, as contained in document
A/L.731, of which the 'Nigeriari delegation is proud
to be a" sponsor.

47. Mr. HUSSEIN (Somalia): My delegation wel-
comes the action of the Credentials Committee in
rejecting the credentials of the representatives of the
Pretoria regime. Four years ago, at the twenty-fifth
session' [1882.nd meeting] the Somali delegation took
the initiative in making a direct challenge to the cre-
dentials of the delegation from South Africa. In re-
peating this challenge consistently since then, my dele-
gation has not been making a symbolic protest. We
have shared the conviction of many other delegations
that the United Nations cannot accept, on an equal
footing with other Member States, the representatives
of South Africa's white minority group. This group,
as we are all aware, seized power illegally and un-
justly in order that the African mi\iority might be

, kept in subjection through the inhuman policies of
apartheid. Over the years the world community has
witnessed that illegal and unjust seizure of power
made effective through the removal of the franchise
rights of the non-white population, rights that had
been enshrined in the Constitution of the Union of
South Africa. Once the non-white people had been

.made powerless to defend themselves through the
normal channels of political action, the stage was
set for the" imposition of apartheid and the' estab-
lishment of the police State which defends the, apart-
heid structure. .

•

43" The 'Security Council itself declared, in resolu- 48. At the United Nations we cannot' accept the
tion 181 (1963) of 7 August 1963, that the racial poli- representatives. of a minority group of 4 million, which
cies of South Africa are "inconsistent with the prin- has excluded the mi\iority of 17 million from their
ciples contained in the Charter of the United Nations legitimate role in the management of their own coun-
and contrary to its obligations as a .Member of the try's affairs ,and from their legitimate share in its so-
United Nations" . nrepeated this declaration in resolu- cial and economic benefits, particularly since the
tion 182 (1963) of 4 December 1963, and resolution rationale of this policy is one of the racial superiority
191 (1964) of 18 June 1964. of one group over another.

44. In its last resolution on apartheid, resolution 49. The acceptance in the past of the representatives
311 (1972), which was adopted in Addis Ababa on of the Pretoria regime has strained the credibility of
4 February 1972, the Security Council again con':' the United Nations and undermined its fundamental
demned the South African regime for continuing its principles. It is assumed that membership in the
policies of apartheid "in violation of its obligations United Nations entails af ~lhe very least a commit-
under the Charter of the United Nations" and de- ment to fundamental human rights, to upholding the
cided, "as a matter of urgency, to examine methods dignity' and the worth of the hun....n person, and to
of resolving the present situation arising out of the pro.viding equal rights for men and women. 'For the
policies of apartheid of the Government of South future it must be considered whether the presence in
Africa" . the United Nations of the so-called representatives

of South Africa makes a mockery of this assumption.

SO. Successive Nationalist Party Governments
have had ample warning of the United Nations view
of their gross violations of the political, economic
and social rights of the majority of the people of South
Africa. They have had ample time to change their
racist policies and make a commitment to social
justice. Ever since the earliest days of the Organiza-
tion the question of racism in South Africa has been
an important concern of the United Nations and the
numerous condemnatory resolutions on this question
that have been adopted over the years by all its main
organs attest to that concern. The specialized agen-
cies also share the world consensus on the nature of
apartheid. Their sharp condemnation of that policy
has forced South Africa to withdraw from most of
these agencies. In recent years successive Presidents
of the General Assembly have interpreted the rejec-
tion of the credentials of the representatives of the
Pretoria regime as tantamount to a solemn warning
to the South African Government to end its racist
policy.

5I. An these condemnations and warnings from the
international community have been ignored by South
Africa. My 'delegation believes that, in the face of this
intransigence, the General Assembly must act to
preserve the credibility of the United Nations and to
strengthen the validity of its principles. The rejection
of the credentials ofthe delegation from South Africa
again this year is astep in this direction. However,
this action must not become a mere formality. It must
be given practical force. The United Nations must
make it clear that it will accept only the representatives

. of the majority of the people of South Africa.

52. My delegation also looks beyond the question
of the credentials of the representatives of the Pretoria
regime. We believe that the extraordinary nature of
the situation in South Africa and the threat its exist-
ence poses to regional and international peace indi-
cate the necessity of' a review by the Security.Coun-
cil of the relationship between the United Nations and
the Pretoria regime.

53. First of all, it is undeniable that the extent.and
the severity ~f violations of human rights in South
Africa constitute a "blot on our world civilization.
Wllile few States can claim to have perfectly just
societies, nowhere else but in South Africa have



he
ch
~ir

In-
10-

he
ity

res
of
tal
:he
lit-
he
to

the
in

/es
In.

ots
ew
mc
uth
ieir
;ial
za-
een
the
ion
ain
en-
~ of
licy
of

mts
lee-
the
ling
cist

the
uth
this

to
1 to
tion
rica
ver,
lUst
lUst
ives

tion
llria
~ of
tist-
ndi-
mn-
and

.and
luth
ion.
just
iave

2Z48th nIIetInI-3O September 1974 263

political injustice and a viciously dehumanizing racism In our ideologically divided world, regional conflicts
been elevated into a philosophy of government. open up the possibility of international conflict, with
54. The majority of Member States believes that an its, terrible implications. But. t~n,te .is running out,
apartheid falls within the category of crimes against and the need ~~r new and bold tmnanves to forestall
humanity. It will be recalled that this category was these dangers It} urgent.
described and established in international law by the 58. The Security Council alone can take action com-
Niirnberg Tribunal and it included the deportation mensurate with the violations of human rights and of
and the enslavement of peoples, both of which are international law of which South Africa is guilty. The
conditions suffered by non-white South Africans in Security Council aionecan give adequate substance
the process of the forcible separation .of the races. to the condemnations and warnings which have been
55. The Declaration on the Occasion of the Twenty- ignored by !30uth Afri.ca ov~r the l?ast 25 years. It is
fifth Anniversary of the United Nations [resolution only Secunty Council action, wh~lch .can ,p~netrate
2627 (XXV)] which described the attitudes, achieve- th~ wall of ~ogance that the mmontyregune has
ments and failures of the world Organization, con- built around Itself. _
demned apartheid as a crime against the conscience 59. My delegation trusts that the General Assembly
of mankind. More recently the judgement of the world will see clearly its duty to call on the Security Coun-
community on apartheid was illustrated by the addi- cil to review with the utmost urgency the situation
tion of the International Convention on the, Suppres- in South Africa and its repercussions and, in the light
sion and Punishment of the Crime ofApartheid [reso- of its findings, to review the relationship between
lution 3068 (XXVIII)] to the body of international South Africa and the United Nations.
law.. The. United N~tions has long agreed that, in 60. Mr. RAHAL (Algeria) (interpretation from
de~bng With apartheid a~d t~e consequences .of that French): I shall not tax the patience of the Assembly
policy, the ~~rld Organization can act ou!slde the unduly in my statement on the report of the Creden-
~orm~1 restrictions I?laced. b~ the Charter o!' lJ.1te~t:n- tials Committee. I shall simply say how pleased we
t!on 10 matters falbng within th~ do~estlc Junsdlc- are to' see this report finally this year accurately re-
non.of Mef!lber States. ":he weighty Ju~gements. of flecting the feelings and the. will.not only of this As-
the IOt~~atlOnal. co~mumty on apartheid .underline sembly. but of the whole international community,
the v~lIdlty of this v~ew. H~wever, apartheid has. not and we are gratified that this year the Credentials Com-
remalO~d a domestic affair of the Sout~ Afnc~n mittee has conducted itself, as it should always do, as
~epu~h.c. Its export to Southe~ ~hodesla and ItS' a faithful emanation of the General Assembly
Imposition on the people of Namlbla~forwhom the . , . . .
United Nations has a special responsibility-have 61. Draft resolution A/L.731 certainly requires no
had serious repercussions with regard to peace and defence; There is still less need to explain it because
security and with regard to the authority both of the it is a natural part 'of a process which the General
United Nations and of the International Court of Assembly has been developing for a number ofyears
Justice. To its customary flouting of the authority now. The innumerable condemnations, which have
of the United Nations on the question of apartheid, become undeniably-universal in their character, of the
South Africa has added contempt for the worid Organ- policy of apartheitj pursued by the South African
ization and for the International Court through its Government have had no effect on that policy arid have
continued illegal occupation of Namibia. The occa- not prevailed upon that Government to alter its concept
sional attempts at window-dressing undertaken by the of '(he administration of.South Africa. The reiec-
South African administration in Namibia to cover up tion of the credentials of the South African delega-
the violations of human rights that are normal in the tion, which has occurred at several sessions, "has re-
Territory have shown themselves time and again to be mained quite Platonic and without practical effect.
without substance. It is clear that only theassuiDp.. The General Assembly could not continue to tolerate
tion of responsibility for the Territory by the United such disregard of its clearly expressed will and the
Nations will ensure that the aspirations of the Nami- decisions it had adopted by a majority which confers
bian people to self-determination- and. independence upon them an importance no one can deny. The inter-
will be fultilled. national community could not •permit one of its mem-
56. The gravest challenge of all to the authority bers, whi.ch end~rsed the pt:inciples of the Charter
of the United Nations by South Mrica lies in its fia- ofthe.pn!ted Nations and~hl~Jt undertook to respect
grant violations of the only mandatory san<~tions ever t~e pnnclplesand the phtlosophy of. th~ Orgamza-
imposed by the Security Council-those ~ainst the tlon,~o behave.consta~tly and obdurately ~n a manner
illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia. South' Africa's so much at vanance With these very principles.
military ~ social and economic collaboration with the 62. In order to manifest its rea! attachment to the
Smith regime completes the picture of cynical dis- pri.nciples it had professed and in order not to lose
regard for international law. cr~dit, the General Assembly had to take anew line
57. The very real threat to regional and international tha~wO\lldall~w it to make clea~ to t~e So~th Mri~a!,.
peace posed by the South African situation must not Go. emment ,Its resolve to.continue Its action until It
be ignored. In 1964, a Group of Experts established :~allY .prevaaledupo!' that. Gove~m~nt to .aban~on
by the Security Council reported on the danger of r PO~lcy of aparotheld and ~o bnn~ Its actions l!'tO
racial conflagration that could be foreseen asa result. me With the pnnclples of the international commumty•
of .South Africa's racist policies." Today; with the 63.. The draft resolution IlOW before the Assembly
liberation struggle of the people. of' southern. Africa is in keeping with •.. the principles'of the. Charter and
becoming more determined and more successful, the also with the procedure stemming from the principles
prospect of such a conflict has been broughtnearet. of the Charter and those' of the rules of procedure,

·f·



General Aaembly-Twenty........ SetIIoD-Plenary Medln..

extended its intolerable policy to the International
territory of Namibia..

70. Mindful of the precepts of the Charter and con-
scious of the explosive character of· a world racial
crisis, the United Nations has over the years rejected
and condemned apartheid and cailed upon the South
African regime to abandon its racist policies. An
outrage and an affront to the sensibilities of mankind,
apartheid has been abhorrent to the vast majority
of the. world's people and has been declared by this
Assembly to be a crime against humanity. On four
occasions within the last fOUl years-that is at each of
its last four sessions-the" Assembly itself has paid
special attention to the position of South Africa in
this Organization when considering the reports of the
Credentials Committee. On each occasion the vote on
the rejection of the credentials of the South African
delegation. has been regarded by this Assembly as
tantamount to a vehement condemnation of the policy
of the South African Government and, on each occa-
sion, the General Assembly has issued a solemn
warning to that-Government.
71. The South African regime has failed to heed
those warnings and has, on the contrary, continued
defiantly in its persistent disregard of all the relevant
decisions of the United Nations on apartheid. It has
compounded that defiance with aggression in regard
to the jurisprudence of the International Court of
Justice, with its contumacious refusal to acknowledge
the a"thority o,fthisOrganization in relation to Namibia
and with its open and blatant breach of mandatory
sanctions against Rhodesia.

72.~n the light of this incontrovertible evidence,
is there a voice in the international community that
can .be raised to challenge the indictment that South
Africa, as a Member of this Organization, has, in the
language of Article 6 of the Charter, "persistently
violated the Principles contained in the ... Charter"?

73. The time has come for decisive action on that
indictment. Persuasion and appeals have been to no
avail. We have had enough from the South African
regime. "Appeasement hereafter can only hurt the
cause of internationalism. To issue another warning,
no matter how solemnly, would, in the view of our
delegstions, be an abdication of our responsibility
under the law,' under the Charter of the United Na-
tions, and would reduce the credibiliiy of this Organ-
ization in the eyes of the peoples of the world.

74. Draft resolution A/L.731 does not seek to specify
the action to be taken against South Africa. By re-
questing the Security Council to examine the rela-
tions between the Organization and South Africa, the
draft resolution ptrmits us, through the prescribed
consdtutlonalprocesses, to initiate long-overdue ac-
tion under Chapter U of the Charter designed to deal
appropriately with a Member State which has per-
sistently violated the principles of the Charter and
ruthlesEly contravened the precepts of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.

75. Thcfdraft resolution has the total and whole-
hearted support of our Caribbean delegations and of
the peoples of our region of the world. We are proud
to be among its sponsors. We urge on all Member
States their unreserved affirmation of it, so that this

~, .

according to the interpretation of them which has
prevailed up to now. When the General Assembly
adopts the draft resolution it will then be for the Secu-
rity Council to face up to its own responsibilities,
responsibilities entrusted to it under the Charter
which are to be endorsed now by the General Assembly
itself.
64. The draft resolution caUs upon the Security
Council to review the relationship between the United
Nations and South Africa. That is a very broad re-
quest, which places no limitations upon the kind of
decision the Security Council may take and gives the .
Security' Council great latitude to adopt whatever
measures it deems best finally to impose respect for
the will of the international community.
65. Many delegations, in discussing this and other
problems, have argued that the General AsseptblY and
the Security Council itself should give the highest
priority to the desire of this Organization to be uni-
versal, and to take very careful account, in all cir-
cumstances, of the principle of universality. We, too,
are aware of the need for respecting the universality
of our Organization, and from this rostrum and in
other assemblies of this Organization we have had
the opportunity to caU for the principle of universality
of the Organization to be applied and respected. But
it is clear to us, too, that it is not a universality to be
achieved at any price. It is not to be achieved even at
the price of forgetfulness of respect for the principles
of the Charter. It must be a universality founded
upon the principles of· the Charter, upon' sound prin-
ciples-in a word, upon the principles of humanity.

66. Before I conclude, I wish to say from this ros-
trum that the group of non-aligned countries gives its
unreserved support to draft resolution A/L.731. .

67. Mr. RAMPHAL (Guyana): Mr. President, there
will be another occasion when I shall hope to speak
more fully about your auspicious election to preside
over this Assembly and abpq~ the services rendered
bi' your predecessor, Mr.,.penites. I accept your
invitation to take the floor this morning in a represen-
tative capacity, speaking on behalf of the countries
of the Caribbean community ~ the Member States of
the Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Jamaica, Trinidad
and Tobago and, of course, Guyana.

68. The issue of which we are now seized, th~deci­
sion to be taken upon the report of the Cr~dentials
Committee recommending the rejection by this .ASo
sembly of the Credentials of the delegation of South·
Africa, is a most serious one. Assuming as I do that
the Assembly will, as on past occasions, accept! the
report of the Credentials Committee, I shall' speak
primarily on the draft resolution just introduced
by the Foreign Minister of Uganda.

69. Speaking from this rostrum six years ago, at the
twenty..third session (l680th meeting], I said,ota'
behalfofGuyana, that South Africa had demonstrated
its moral incapacity to continue in the membership
ofthis Organization. The intervening period has sen'ed
only to strengthen that view and to tender 11· collective

I response to it from the international community
even more compelling than it was then. The South
African regime has ,continued· to. apply its pernicious
policy of apartheid with all the brutality at its com- '"
mand and, adding contumacy to, immorality, has

-
, .



2248th mtetinl-30 September 1974 265

nal

on-
cial
ted
uth
An
nd,
rity
this
our
~ of
laid
l in
the

~ on
can
, as
Ucy
cca-
emn

ieed
med
vant
has
~ard
t of
~dge

tibia
tory

nce,
that
(luth
I the
,ntiy
:r"?

that
) no
ican
the

ling,
. our
)i1ity
Na-

'gan-

ecify
V re-
rela-
" the
tibed
e ac-
deal
per-

, and
ersal

hole-
rid of
~roud

mber
t this

Assembly may reflect in a single-mindeif 'way the
outraged conscience of ma~~~!1d.
76. Mr. KELANI (Syrian Arab. Republic) (inter-
pretation from Arabic): It is indeed astonishing, in
this contemporary world-and perticulariy within this
Organization that built its Charter on the principles
of equity and of equality among peoples, on the right
to self-determination and on the abolition of discrim-
ination in all its forms, in particular racial discrimi-
nation-that we should find here, among the repre-
sentatives of the entire world, the delegation of a
Government wt·ich does not represent the population
of the country it governs. I am referring, of course,
to the Government of South Africa.
77. That Government represents only a small minor-
ity of non-African outsiders. It is a colonialist minor-
ity that occupied South Africa and installed itself in
that country. It has established an illegal Govern-
ment, thereby violating the right to self-determina-
tion of more than 15 million Africans belonging to the
population of that country. The Government of the
delegation here occupying the seat of South Africa,
with no right whatsoever, continues to practise its
policy of racial discrimination.
78. Only 10 days ago [2236th meeting] the repre-
sentative of that Government sought here to strike
the item on South Africa's policy of apartheid from
the agenda of this session .of the General Assembly;
but despite his request, the General Assembly ap-
proved the inclusion of the item in the agenda. By
rejecting the request of the delegation of the South
African regime, the Assembly in categorical fashion
condemned the regime in question as it has done in
refusing to accept the credentials of the represen-
tatives of that regime on various occasions from 1971
to the present date.
79. The successive positions taken by the General
Assembly were not taken < arbitrarily. The Govern-
ment of South Africa has been condemned on numer-
ous occasions for its violations q)f the principles of
the Charter and of the Universal Declaration ofHuman
Rights; but it has continued its violations despite all
the warnings and condemnations appearing in General
Assembly resolutions adopted through the years,
despite the sanctions imposed on South Africa at the
international level, and despite the various positions
taken by the majority of the world's countries with
regard to that regime.
80. That Government, however, has not given up
the practice of its policy of apartheid. It has violated
paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the Charter by depriving
the people of South Africa of their right to self-deter-
mination and limiting that right to the white colonialist
minority. It has also violated parasntPh 3 ofthat same
Article 1 by steadfastly continuing to apply the policy
of apartheid, by denying its citizens their legal right
to enjoy the basic.freedoms, by applying racial dis-
crimination-discrimination based on colour-thus,
by such policy, violating as well the Universal Decla-
ration of Human Rights. For all these reasons, it is
high time that the General Assembly called for the
application of Article 6 of the Charter. This question
should be referred to the Security Council with the
request that the Council review the relationship
e~isting between the United Nations and the regime
of South Africa.

.- -_...-
81. The delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic
hopes that the draft resolution now before us, sub-
mitted by a large number of countries, including
Syria, will be adopted by the General Assembly, so
that it may Serve as a lesson to all those who may
attempt to violate the principles of the Charter and of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

82. Mr. PETRIC (Yugoslavia)~For a number of
years the .racist regime of South Africa has' been
violating all the moral, legal and political norms of
contemporary mankind, wilfully disregarding the
fundamentalptovisions of the Charter of the United
Nations as well as numerous decisions of the General
Assembly and its organs.

83. It is not my intention, and I am certain that it
is not necessary either to deal here in detail with the
sinister policies and :be repressive measures of the
Nazi South African rea;ime, as not only the States
Members of the Organizacion but also world public
opinion at large are very we" aware of them. Unfor-
tunately, we have to note t~at the South African
racists, who are condemned most emphatically by the
majority of the States Members of the United Nations,
receive assistance and support from certain influential
quarters and are thus able to maintain themselves in
power. However, the struggle of oppressed peoples in
.the south of Mrica is gaining strength and is achieving
new success every day, and it'is certain that oppressed
peoples-all of them, and especially those of South
Mrica-will soon achieve their inalienable right to
self-determination, freedom and independence.

84. We welcome with satisfaction the decision of
the Credentials Committee, which we are sure will be
confirmed today in the General Assembly by a great
majority, not to recognize the credentials of the regime
in South Africa· as tt~is regime represents only the
white minority. The decision on non-recognition

. of the credentials of the illegal South African regime
has fully confirmed the moralandpolitical maturity
of the Organization altd the date of this decision is
important in the struggle against apartheid.

85. Numerous appeals, wamingsand demands have
been addressed in the United Nations to the South
African reactionaries. The latter have been given a
number of opportunities to discard their policy. The
Pretoria regime has constantly rejected those oppor-
tunities, continuing to violate the principles and deci-
sions of the Organization. I believe that it is high time
for the Organization. to pass.from' words to deeds and
to implement as a matter of urgency all the cone..ete
measures against the Pretoria regime that the United
Nations is authorized to take under the Charter.

86. The people and Government of Yugoslavia,in
keeping with their policy of support for the struggle
for self-determination,. freedom and independence
of all peoples and countries and against all forms of
oppression' and foreign domination, call for urgent
action by the international community. We are reso-
lutely opposed. to any further postponement of con-
crete measures due to proceduralmaneeuvres aimed
at postponement and at saving the South Mrican
reactionaries.

87. As sponsors of the ptoposed draft resolution,
we are sure that the: great .majority' of other States



t
........... --_,,_,,".,"._c~·_, ~_,_~ .~, " "'~""""""""'_~>"'"'''''''_~' ''-''''''-'-~_'~_''_'~'~ __~__' ',

;; ...

Members of the Organization will support it. We hope
that the Security Council, in considering the problem
of South Africa, will fully take into account the posi-
tion' of the General Assembly and the obligations laid
upon it by the Charter in its capacity as principal organ
for the safeguarding of-peace and security and that
it will adopt a responsible, concrete and principled
decision, namely, that it will finally adopt effective
measures against the Government of a Member State
that has violated all the decisions taken by the United
Nations so far. '
88. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
The next speaker on my list is the representative of
Cuba, but first I call on the representative of Saudi
Arabia on a point of order.
89. Mr. BAROODY (Saudi Arabia): I have asked to
speak on a point of order because I hope it will not
be very iong before we vote; but before we do so
I thought it would be appropriate to submit an amend-
ment to the draft, resolution before the Assembly.
90. Somebody might ask why I do, not wait until
the end. Because, I realize that my amendment will
have to be translated Into-the working Ianguages, So
I wanted to assure my colleague from Cuba that I had
no objection to what he wanted to say and I apologize
for having 'raised ,that point of order after he was
announced to,come to the rostrum.
91. We need" clarify in our resolution. We should
not leave the entire matter to the Security Coun-
cil, as we know very well that one of its permanent
members can exercise a veto and all the recommenda-
tions tnat may emanate from this Assembly will be
null and void. What is the idea of passing resolutions
that cannot be put into practice?

. 92. 'Of course we are giving vent to our disapproval
of the way the Republic of South Africa runs its State,
and I mightventure to say it is a republic with a limited
public, it.is a republic of a minority. Some: here might
say that there,are many dic~~torships among. States
Members of the United Natitlns; what about them?
This is a moot question and we,should also be careful
how we measure our steps and how we act, for the
future. But here there is 'a specific recommendation
with regard to apartheid. ' "
93. If I were to draft this resolution, with all due
respect to those who-sponsored it-and I always
leave the name of the country I represent aside" so
that we may humbly contribute whatever.we believe
to be constructive suggestions-e-I would not have
mentioned the Universal Declaration of·HlIman·~ghts,

, in the elaboration ofwhich it was.my honour to parti-
cipate in the Palaisde Chaillot over 25 years ago, be-
cause human rights are being violated every day. The
Charter is being violated every day. But, here there
is a specific question of 'discrimination that has been
discussed year in; year' out since the-United Nations
was founded. It is. not a simple human right. The 'Worth
and'dignity of the' 'human person is at stake, regard-
less of eolour, ,I would say. "

94. Therefore, baving given this short,pref~~e to
my amendment, I hope that it will now become more
understandable .to the General Assembly:. It, was
judiciously' worded without in any way diluting the
force of the subject. matter of the draft resolution.
In fact, it bolsters the draft reSolution, but it will not

, ,

allow us to fall into traps in the future, in the sense
that any member can come to this rostrum and say
that such and such a country is violating the Charter
and buman rights and therefore should be suspended
Of, expelled. It is judicious in the sense that year in,
year OUt, the members 'of the Assembly, even when
the membership of the Organization, was much less
than it is today, unanimously reproached South Africa
for persisting in its 'policy 'of apartheid. '
95. Just because the skin of the majority is black
that m~ority has no voice. This is a precedent that
would never occur in any country without repercus-
sions and bloodshed. It is;,~wonder that the people
of South Africa have beendocile. We do not want
to see bloodshed here; we do not want to witness
bloodshed here while we are complacent as to what
should Of should not be done.
96. The following is the amendment which should
be added as operative paragraph 2:

"Urges the'Government of South Africa, 'pending
'any 'decision that might be taken by. the Security
Council pursuant to the. recommendation of the
preceding paragraph and taking into account that
South ,Africa is representative ofthe white minor-

,ity witho\lt its Government having, ascertained
the will of the' black majority, < to take forthwith
drastic action to rectify this anomalous 'situation".
. '~' ~ . . " .. ... ...

9,7. This is the last chance (or South; Africa to rec-
tify that anomalous situation pending a decision by the
Security Council, so that the veto may not be un-
justly used-and then we would be the laughing stock
of the world community: by sending a resolution
to the Security Council that might become like a
tennis ball, sent to the Security Council and then back
from the Security Council to the Assembly. This
would not redound to the honour of the Organization.

98. Mr. President, thank you for allowing me to
submit this text and, again, I apologize to my good
colleague, the rerresentative of Cuba, and the other
representatives who had put their names on the list.
But 1 thought, that it was Imperative that I should
read the text, lest, if I submitted it later, someone
might say that it was too late then for consideration.

99. Mr. ALARC6N(Cuba) (interpretation from
Spanish): For years the General Assembly has dis-
cussed the situation in ,South Africa and, in particular,
the flagrant violations of the United Nations Charter,
of the Uni,versalDeclaration of Human Rights, and

.of the decisions taken by .this Assembly itself. The
violations which occur in that' territory are carried
out :bya regime 'Which represents a colonialist and
racist minority, 'which not only does not represent
the Afri,can population on which it has imposed an
opprobrious,. regime of exploitation and racial' seg-
regation', but, under the ConstitUtionof South Africa,
and a~cording to its ownwl1~i~~ :'philosophy, has
never claimed to represent' that African maJority
population. . ,'

100. This General Assembly repeatedly and firmly
-has expressed, its opposition' .to this policy and has
more than once urged the South African regime to
put an end 'to:1t, and has on more than one occasion
given that :r6girnean opportunity to alter its: policy,
and to bring it into accord with the opinion of the



.,

••: 2141d1 meet....... september 1974 267

ml\iority of the international com- with .the resolution previously mentioned and the long
history of repudiation ' of apartheid and .. rejection of
the discriminatory practices imposed, by' the white
racist. minority against'the 11 million Africans, in that
territory, decisively endorsethe report of .the ere-
dentialsiCommittee. It is all the moreimportant to do
-so this" 'year because' we are clearly witnessing a
broadening of the anti-colonialist trend sweeping
the world in accord with the viewpoints and feelings
of the vast majority of us.
106. It was with deep feeling and great joy that -this
General Assembly only a few· days ago received the
representatives of the new Government of Portugal
and applauded whole-heartedly the statement made
by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal,
Mr. Mario Soares (2239th meeting], when in a historic
declarationJrom. this rostrum on behalf of his Govern-
ment aridpeople he'condemned' the pOlicy ~fapartheid.
107.·lt was-also with deep feeling that this Assem-
bly received' the representatives of the new Member
State, Guinea-Bissau, a sy.mOOl of the long struggle
of the African people against colonial domination
and racial oppression. Both events, the fall of fascism
in Portugal and the, admission to membership in the
United Nations of Guinea-Blssau, were unequivocal
expressions of the fact that colonialism and racism
can no longer continue to be imposed, on the world
and that the efforts of this Organization and.the re-
peated deliberations that have taken place in this As-
sembly Hall. for years are in accord with. the ,march
of history. It is only fitting that this Assembly should
take decisions, so that in the long run we may see
how ~hese aspirations of the m~orityof mankind are
'turned into the reality we welcome today ~ .
108. Similarly, my delegation considers thatthe.time
has. come for thi~ Assembly and the Organization
as a. whole to adopt more forceful measures, more
final decision", in order to bring to an end the situa-
tionthat exis,t.sinsoutbef!l Africa. Accordingly,
we associate ourselve,giJ'YiththeJ\frican States and
other Member,S of. this Assembly .by sJjbscribing jo
draft resolution.A/L.731, of which Cuba:.also wishes

, to beconside.n;d it:: sponsor and .which "call~ upon
.the Security Council to review the relationship be-
tweenthe United Nations, and South Africa in the
light of the constant violation by South Africa of the
principles of the Charter and the UniversalDeclara-
tionof Human Rights. " ,

109... We all. know that the question of, violations
of thosq rights in .. Soutb Afri~a is perhaps, one of the
oldest iteltison 'the .enda'of"tbisAssembly. The
As~embly started dealing with this item almost at the
i,nception of th~. Organization. ari,d it has ,been. CQJlsid-·
'eririg it,from year to year. Everyreview, ,eV(fJiry delib-
eration, .every' resolution addressed by. this. Assem-
bly. to the Government of SOtlth Africa, transmitting
to it the opinion .of thev8stmajority of its Members,

, was an oppOrtunity given by the General, Assembly
to the racist regbrie to alter the existiusi~uation.
1l0~ If this Organization has done'~othi~g else, it
has givell.opportunities to the racist 'regime to change
its policy. If there is' anything more ;the'·United'Na-
'lions can do, it is to adopt thepraeticalllleasures
available to the! ....~curity Council under the Charter to
compel tbat 'relime to respett intttnatiorraI,legisla-
don in this matter,·to recognize 'the rights ofthe' Mrican

.overwhelming
munity.

10L In pastyears my delegation expressed its views
on the, reports submitted ~to us by, the Credentials
Committee, and we poimed out to the Assembly
that the Committee, in the consideration of this agenda
item, should tfetlect the majority feeling and opinion
of the Members of this Organization. It is therefore
with great satisfaction that- we' haverecdved the
report submitted to us this year by' the Committee,
recommending that we .reiect the eredentials of the
South Africanregirne.

102. It is fitting to point out that with this recom-
mendation the Committee is adhering strictly to its
terms of reference and complying with its duty as
a subsidiary organ of the General Assembly.In the
past, we have heard here obiectionsto the decisions
of the Assembiy rejecting the crede,ntials of South
Africa, on the basis of a restrictive interpretation
of the terms of reference of the Credentials Com-
mittee. That is .why we emphasize ,the fact that the
Committee is a subsidiary organ of the General As-
sembly and, accordingly, must apply .what the rules
ofprocedure establish for it, but it must also be guided
by the directives, policies and guidelines given to the
Credentials Committee by the Assembly in its capac-
ity as the sovereign body. Indeed, on 14 December
1973, ju~t when we were celebr~ting the proclama-
tion of' the historical Declaration on the Granting
of. Independence, to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
the General Assembly, by a voteof 88 .to 7, took the
following decision:

"Declares that the South African regime has no
right to represent the. people of South Africa and
that the liberation movements recognized by the
Organization of African, Unity are the authentic
representatives of' the o~erwbelminl:.m~ority of
the South African people." [Resolution 3J51G
(XXVIII).]

103~ It is the view of my delegation that the General
Assembly, when it adopted this ,. text, had already
decided that it would not accepia'situation in which
the seat of the South African people cO,ntinued to be
usurped by a minority regime which neither repre-
sented that people' nor even claimed to represent it,
and that as long as the present situation prevailed in
.that territory, the seat should be occupied by the
.renresentatives of the liberation movementsrec-
ognized by the OAU which the General Assembly
declares' 'are the authentic .representatives of the
overwhelming m~ority ofthe South Africa", people" .

.. .;.>'• .~

104. .Since the Credentials Committee had before it
credentials which had not been' 'issued by those whom
the General. Assembly already recognized as the repre-
sentauves of that people but wereissuedoy-those
whom the General Assembly had already declared had

.no right to represent t~atpeople, the Credentials Com:.
mittee had no choice, indischatgingits obligafions
as> a subsidiary organ of this Assemb.y, but to reject
the credentials of the -South African regime, since
this Assembly.already decided lti\t. year: that that
regime had no right to 'represent that Member_of the
United Nations.

1OS.My delegation therefore trusts that this Assem-
bly will, by an overwhehnina fm\iority, consistent

) rec-
)y the
e un-
stock
lution
like a
i back

This
ition.

ne to
good
other
e list.
ihould
neone
uion.

from
LS dis-
icular,
iarter,
s, and
f. The
:arried
st and
resent
iedan
It'seg-
I\frica,
y, has
aJority

ense
I say
arter
nded
Lr in,
when
less

.frica

nding
eurlty
f the
t that
iinor-
ained
hwith
on".

hould

slack
, that
reus-
eople
want
tness
what

firmly
nd has
ime to
:casion
policy,
of the



General ~mbly-Twenty.nI"''' SelllOI!-'Plenary Meetlnp268

population and to put an' end to a,policy and a situa-
tion which not only have constituted and continue to
constitute a negation of the rights, ~f the African peo-
ple of: South Africa, but represent a constant and
permanent scorning, a systematic defiance and a con-
tinual rejection of international public \;tpinion and
of the criteria which have been reaffirmed by this
Assembly from year to year.
111. Therefore we do not believe that tlhe business
on the agenda at this time should be once more to
begin a dialogQe with those who have closed the doors
on a dialogue for decades, but rather to require the
Security Council to adopt the urgent, necessary and
practical measures that the international community
has been demanding for years.

, 112. 'Mr. GROZEV (Bulgaria) (interpretation from
'Russian): As Chairman of the group of socialist coun-
, tries of Eastern Europe, I should' like to state that
we fully support the conclusions and recommenda-
tions of the Credentials Committee [A19779] recom-
mending non-recognition of the credentials of the
delegation of South Africa as representatives of the
racist regime of Pretoria. This is not the first time the
General Assembly has rejected the credentials of
this regime and there is a serious basis for this. The
regime of the racist minority in South Africa is Con-
tinuing to commit, the most flagrant violation of, the
United Nations Chatter ana its principles and to
pursue a policy of apartheid and racial discrimina-
tion that has been rejected by all mankind.

113. The United Nations has adopted numerous
decisions requiring the Government of South Africa
to cease this,~licy and also to grant the right of the
people of Namibia to self-determination and true and
genuine independence. The Pretoria regime, however,
continues to disregard flagrantly the will, and the
decisions of the Organization. It is precisely for this
reason -that the racist regime of Pretoria cannot be,
and ha~, n~ right t.o .cla~m/\,hat it is,repre~entative
of the indigenous Inhablt~qlsof South Afnca, who
constitute the overwl)elming majorityof the population
of that country. On the basis of these considerations,
the delegations of the countries of Eastern Europe
support draft resolution AIL.731 and express the con-
viction that it will be adopted by the General As-
sembly.

114. Mr. SHEVEL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic) (interpretation from Russian): Mr. Presi-
dent, speaking for the first time at this session of the
General Assembly I should.hke, on behalf of the dele-
gation of the Ukrainian SSR, to say that we asso-

.ciate ourselves wi,th the, many" words of welcome
that have already been addressed to you. Our delega-
tion wishes to express its special satisfaction at the
fact that it is you, a son of the heroic people of Algeria~
a people that has made such a great contribution to
the struggle for the freedam and independence,of
colonial peoples,_wh~ have been elected President of
this session.We wish you every success.

115. The delegation of the Ukrainian; SSR supports
the draft resolution, which proposes that the Security
Council review the relationship between the United
Nations and South Afticain the light of the constant
violation by ,South, Afric~ of the principles of the
Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human

Rights. Webtlieve that this' proposal is well-founded,
just and timely.
116. The policy of apartheid pursued by the racist
Government of South Africa has been the subject
of constant concern an'd anxiety to world public
opinion and all progressive forces. It has also been
the focus of attention in many international forums
and, tirst and foremost, in the United Nations itself.
From the earliest' days of its existence the United
Nations has had to deal with this problem. Over the
years a large number of resolutions have been adopted
containing appeals to the Qqvernment of South Africa
to cease the universally condemned policy of apart-
heid. Nevertheless, in spite of the appeals by the
United Nations, that racist regime has stubbornly
continued to press its criminal policy of apartheid,
subjecting millions of Africans' to the most cruel
forms of suff,ring, enslavement, humiliation and
oppression. '

117. The racist regime of South Africa is anti-human-
itarian and inhuman:' 'A handful of white settlers
have been ruthlessly exploiting, repressing and sub-
jecting to racial oppression, millions of the indigenous
inhabitants of South Africa. Therefore, the decision
adopted at the last session of the General Assembly
was well-foundea and entirely correct whenit said
as other speakers have done that the South African
regime has no right to represent the people of South
Africa; and that the genuine representatives of the
overwhelming,majority of the people of Suuth Africa
are the liberation movements recognizedby the OAU.
118. It is quite obvious that the fundamental role
in the struggle for the liquidation of racism and apart-
heid belongs' to the oppressed peoples of South Africa
and its liberation movements. It is the lofty duty of
the United Nations to do everilhing it can to assist

. in this struggle. Therefore it is only natural for the
United Nations, in its resolutions onapartheid adopted
at previous sessions of the General Assembly, to have
called upon Governments, international and national
organizations to undertake more effective action
against the Government of South Africa.

.,.. ..

,119. The Ukrainian SSR actively supports the strug-
gle of colonial and oppressed peoples for freedom
and independence and, being a member of the Special
Committee against Apartheid, has consistently fa-
voured the entire elimination of remaining colonial
regimes and is in favour of the final eradication of
all manifestations of racism and apartheid.

120. On the basis of this approach wewhole-heartedly
support the proposal that the Security Council should
review the relationship between the United Nations
and Sout~l Africa. The adoption of the drattresolu-
'tion containing this proposal would, in our view, be
a concrete step which would reflect the determina-
tion of the United 'Nations to make every effort to
do its duty, towards the peoples which are languishing
under the power of the racists. This step, without any
doubt, would promote an intensification,ofthe struggle
on the part "r the progressive forces of mankind
against the racist regime of South Africa and against
the inhuman policy of apartheid.
121. In conformity with its international duty the
delegation of the Ukrainian SSR will vote in favour
of draft resolution A/L.731. Furthermore, our delega-



.,

2248th~ Septembe_r_l_fJ7.;..4 .:.-.._, l,~9

nmded,

e racist
subject
public

10 been
forums
s itself.
United

iver the
adopted
~ Africa
f apart-
by the

bbornly
artheld,
st cruel
on and

-human-
settlers

md sub-
ligenous
decision
.ssembly
1'it said
African

of South
s of the
:h Africa
,eOAU.

otal role
Id apart-
th Africa
r duty of
to assist
1 for the
radopted
',to have
, national
e action

the strug-
freedom

le Special
:ently fa-
: colonial
ication of

heartedly
eil should
I Nations
it resolu-
view, be

letermina-
effort to

~nguishing

ithout any
le struggle
'mankind
ndagainst

duty the
in favour

ur delega-

tion whole-heartedly supports the recommendation of
the Credentials Committee not to recognize the ere- ,
dentials of the delegation of the illegal racist regime
of South Africa.
122. Mr. JAIPAL (India): The question before us
today is one concerning the representation of the
Member State of South At.. lea and not whether South
Africa· should continue to be a State Member of tbe
United Nations. The credentials that we have received
are from the Pretoria regime and in respect of its
representatives. These representatives may, ofcourse,
represent themselves but clearly they do not represent
the people of South Africa, 80 per cent ofwhom do not
have the right to vote and are subjected to the' self-
righteous and cynical doctrine 'of apartheid as the
basis of administration.
123. In its resolut.on 3151 G (XXVIII), the General
Assembly had pronounced itself,on the illegitimacy
of the Pretoria regime. It follows from tha; decision
surely that we should now reject the credentials
of that regime to represent South Mrica.

124. If is absurd to suggest, as some have done,
that there are no. criteria for dealing with the ques-
tion of credentials, and that we are required only
to make sure, like a bunch of clerks, that the creden-
tials have been signed by the Head of State or Gov-
ernment or the Foreign Minister. We are dealing
with a' 'political·question and no criteria are needed
for taking a decision. Draft resolution A/l..73!, of
which India is a sponsor, calls upon theSecurity Coun-
cil to review the relationship between the United Na-
tions and the Pretoria regime in South Africa. In the
course of such a review the Security Council should
take into account the anomalous situation in Na-
mibia. This Territory is under United Nations admin-
istrative control but the Pretoria regime has prevented
the United Nations from exercising its functions.
Namibia continues to be under the illegal occupation
of the Pretoria regime and this fact alone warrants
the severest action against that regime in terms of the
Charter. '

12S.The Pretoria regime has been given a long
enough rope and more than enough time-to mend its
ways. It has not done so, and there is no sign what-
ever that it will do so in the near future. The Saudi
Arabian amendment is of course well meant ~ut I,' am
afraid that it will be unheeded by the Pretoria regime.
In these circumstances we hope that all, fi.tembers
here will readily .acknowledge the hopelessness of
the situation and support the draft resolution before
us as it is timely, adequate.. necessary and incon-
formity with the United Nations Charter..

126.. Mr. GARCtA' ROBLES (MeXico) '(interpre-
tationfrom Spanish): My delegation has ha~ countless
opportunities, both in the Special Political,' Com-
mittee-and ·the General 'Assembly, to stale its con-
demnation of the policy of apartheid and of South
Africa'sconduct in -many other cases--bfwhich the
most flagrant is that of Namibia. I ,shall confine my-
self to recalling what was said by us in -1970 during
the twenty·fifth anniversary of the United Nations:

"My delegation feels that .itis not necessary to
dwell on the fact that the "United Nations 'and the
specialized agencies 'have proven beyond question
that the policy ,of apartheid is 'an evilwhic~ 'affects

,','. .' .:.

all those who participate in its implementation
and ,anplication. It has had unfavourable conse-
quences for all,the inhabitants of South PJ'rir;aand
not only, for those of African origin, consequences
such as the establishment of a police State and the
creation of economic development which is im-
,proper and unbalanced and which is contemptuous
of the principles of development, which the rest
of the world is trying to achieve. Development, in
South Africa is based on the pitiless exploitation
of the majority, which is deprived of any oppor-
tunity to enjoy the benefits of its work which it
gives to the State to which it belongs."

On that same occasion, we stated further that:
"There is also no doubt that the policy of apart-

heid has continued to develop and that the many
resolutions adopted by. the General Assembly have
turned out 10 be useless. The so-called apartheid
laws in South Africa for the last decade have be-
come ever more repressive. One of the well-known
newspapers in the United States, The Christian
Science Monitor, recently published the cost of
human suffering signified by the imposition of the
policy of apartheid . .. In the period from the
middle of 1968 to the middle of 1969 almost half a
million people were imprisoned, in other words,
one out of forty persons, which signifies that in
any single day in South Africa there were more
than 88,000 persons in prison, of which more than
95 percent were African. That means that most of
those cases of imprisonment were as the result of
violations of the law of apartheid. During that
same period eighty-four persons were executed in
Africa, which represents almost.half the executions
which took place throughout the entire world."!

127. And yet, despite our unswerving position, we
were compelled i to abstain last year at the twenty- ,
seventh session [2141st,meeting] when 'a vote was
taken on an amendment to the report of the Creden-
tials Committee. This year, much to our regret, and
for legal reasons which"hiy delegation views as highly
respectable, we shall be obliged to adopt an analogous
position with respect to the report of the Credentials
Committee.

128. However, we believe that there is another
procedure for achieving the purpose common to us
all. This other procedure is the one contained in draft
resolution A/L.731~forwhich we shall not only vote
butto which, if acceptable to the sponsors, my dele-
gation would like to propose an amendment, to
strengthen it and to make it even more effective in
achieving the desired aim. In this connexion I should
like to say a few words by way of explanation. When.
reference was made to a spe'cific suggestion put for-
ward by Mexico in 1969, my delegat,ion, in 1970,
stated,in the same statement, that .

. '
."There. are-other means provided for by the '

Charter the application of which would no doubt be
more .beneficial to the Organization. My delega-
tion-believes that they ,would result in morepres-
sure on South Africa in order to hasten the day
when an end can, be put to a.policy which has been
universally condemned.us , ,

129. What were those means? On that occasion,
we explaihed oUt thinking in the 'followini terms:



210 General AMtmbly:....Twenty·nlnth Seulon-Plenary Meetlnp

'j
I

I

\
j
\

"Last year, in dealing with the item entitled
'Co-operation between the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity: Manifesto on South-
ern Africa' [tl,qellClll item 106], my delegation put
forward a few ideas which were founded on the
Charter and seemed to it to be most advisable in
order to enable the Organization to act against the
policy of aptlrtltel;'d, Since I deem them advisable
and relevant, let me repeat them now. Paragraph 22
of the Manifesto on Southern Africa6 says:

'0 'The South African Government cannot be
allowed both to reject the very concept of man..
kind's unity and to benefit by the strength given
through friendly international relations',
"This quotation and the Manifesto itself, ~n the

same pat-agrnph, lead us to a conclusion which
my delegation believes unavoidable, namely, that,
to quote the Manifesto:

.. 'South Africa should be excluded from the
United Nations Agencies, and even frora the
United Nations itself"."
\\My delegation persists in believing that the

time has come to extend the ostracism applied to
South Africn by other specialized organizations to
the United Nations itself, and we believe that this
should take place within this twenty-fifth anniver-
sary session" It is a patent contradiction that we
shouM continue to preach equality among all human
beings, on the one hand, and, on the other hand,
aecept as a Member State with full power to exer-
cise its rights the Republic of South Africa whose
national policy is based upon constant and persis-
tent violation of the principle of equality on which
our Organization is founded. The delegation of
Mexico believes that it is indispensable to imple-
ment the terms of the Manifesto on Southern Africa
and to apply ostracism within the United Nations
until the Government of South Africa accepts the
principle wbich all except they accept, the equality
ofaU men."

130. What would be this procedure'] That was also
explained at that time as follows:

....The Charter provides in Article S for the suspen-
sion of a Member State against which preventive
or enforcement action has been taken by the Secu-
rity Council. This suspension, without deprivinjJ
such a State of any of its obligations, does deprive
it of the exercise of the rights and privileges inher-
ent in its membership of the United ~ations."

Ill. The conditions provided for in that Article
are fully met in the case of South Africa. Indeed,

....The Republic of South Africa has been the
subject of coercive action by the Security Council,
as can be seen in the Council's resolutions 181
(l963) and 282 (1970). South Africa has also been
the sub~t of preventive action by the Security
Council as is established in resolution 182 (1963)~
paragraphs 6 and 7. My delegation believes that
fuere can be no obstacle to the Assembly using
the world "powers" which is established in Article 11,
and requesting the Security Council to consider a
recommendation which" based on Ar1icle 5 of the
Chatter" would suspend the Republic~fSouthAfrica
from the exercise of the ri,ghtsand privileges inher-
ent in its membership of the OIpnization~""

132. In the light of what l have just said-and what,
I reiterate, we have been saying since 1970-and to
repeat what we stated in 1969, my delegation welcomes
with deep satisfaction draft resolution AIL.731, and
would like to suggest the following amehdments.
133. The only operative paragraph of the present
draft resolution should become paragraph I. After
the word "review" the word "urgently" should be
added. The beginning of the paragraph would then
read: "Calls upon the Security Council to review
urgently the relationship . . .", Then a paragraph 2
should be added, which would, read as follows:

"Invites the Security C'ouncil, in carrying out
the review, to consider the desirability of recom-
mending to the General Assembly, in confotmity
with Article 5 of the Charter, the immediate sus-
pension of South Africa from the exercise of the
rights and privileges of membership of the United
Nations."

134, As [. said at the beginning, my delegation is
convinced that that would be the most effective way
of fulfilling, in conformity with the Charter, the pur-
pose which, I am certain, we all share.
135. The PRESIDENT (tmerpretation from French):
I call upon the representative of Senegal on a proposal
for the closure of the debate.
136. Mr. FALL (Senegal) (interpretation from
French): Mr. President, the head of my delegation,
who will speak three days from now, will express
to you the feelings of my delegation and my country
about the honour that the General Assembly has
conferred upon you in electing you to the post of
President of the twenty-ninth session. For the moment
I shall limit myself to speaking on the point upon
which I have asked for the floor.
137. This debate has lasted rather too long, and we
should like to crave the indulgence of the delega-
tions whose foreign ministers were to have spoken
this morning. However, we consider it was necessary
for such a debate to take place. We believe that at
present everything that had to be said on this problem
has been said, that there is nothing further to add,
and that the General Assembly has formed its opin-
ion. That is why we ask that, under the provisions
of role 7S of the roles of procedure, the debate be
closed. We .call for the immediate closure of the de-
bate and for a vote to' be taken before the adjourn-
ment of this meeting on the report of the Credentials
Committee and on draft resolution AlL.731, which
has been introduced on behalf of the African group.
138. In regard to the draft resolution I should like
to draw the attention of the Assembly to two points.
We have heard an amendment presented by the repre-
sentative of Saudi Arabia [para. 96 above]. I would
urge Mr. Baroody to withdraw that amendment,
which does not meet with our acceptance. If he main-
tains his amendment, we shall, regretfully, have to
vote against it; but I hope that we shall not have to
go that far and that the representative of Saudi Arabia
wiU spare us the unfortunate and regrettable obliga-
tion of having to oppose mm.
139. Secondly, with regard to the suggestion of
the representative ofMexico-for, ifmy understanding
is correct, I believe he has introduced not a formal
amendment but a suggestion-I must confess that



2248th meetlnl-30'September 1974 271

we have thought of that. The first draft resolution',
that the African group agreed on contained everything
that he has mentioned. We asked the Security Coun-
cil to meet on an emergency basis to consider the
application of the provisions of Article 5 ofthe Charter;
but after mature reflection we. considered it was
more appropriate, and more courteous vis-it-vis the
members of the Security Council, not to bind their
hands and to leave the Security Council, in its wis-
dom, free to take whatever decision it might deem
appropriate concerning the presence of South Africa
in the United Nations,
140. We have representatives of the African group
in the Security Council. We have friends in the Secu..
rity Council. We have faith in them. We even have
faith in those who have not always displayed friend-
ship towards us. We hope that the Security Coun-
cil, in its wisdom, will take the fullest possible account
of the decisions that will be taken by the General
Assembly according to its vote to which, Mr. Pres-
ident, I request that you now ask the Assembly to
proceed.
141. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
The Assembly has before it a proposal for the closure
of the debate pursuant to rule 15 of the rules of pro. .
cedure. In accordance with that rule, two speakers
may speak against the proposal of the representative
of Senegal. I would remind speakers that the state-
ments made must be within the strict context of the
proposal for closure of the debate. I call now on the
representative of 'South Africa.
142. Mr. BOTHA(South Africa): This is obviously
an attempt to prevent the South African delegation
from participating in this debate. We are strongly
opposed to this motion. We consider it as a denial
of a right to which we are entitled. If, however, this
motion should be carried, we respectfully request
that our name be placed on the speakers' list for an
explanation of vote before the vote.
143. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
As there is no other delegation wishing to speak
against the motion for closure of the debate made by
the delegation of Senegal,that motion will be put to
the vote immediately.

The motion for closure of the debate was adopted
by /03 votes to 2/, with /0 abstentions.

144. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
Before calling on the representative of South ~frica,
pursuant to rule 88, for an explanation of his vote,
I call on the representative of Senegal on a point of
order.
145. Mr. FALL (Senegal) (interpretation from
French): I wish to come back to the idea I developed .
a few minutes ago, namely that the debate has lasted
a bit too long, and I am under the impression.thar the
representative of South Africa intends to draw out
the pleasure a little longer. That, however, is not our
intention. It is our wish that when the meeting is
resumed this afternoon, the Foreign Ministers who
have inscribed their names for the general debate
will be able to make their statements, and accordingly
we wish' to see the debate on the first report of the
Credentials Committee concluded before this meeting
ends. Therefore, on the basis of the' provisions of'
rule 72 of the rules of procedure, I request the Pres-

ident to call upon the Assembly to limit the time de-
voted to an explanation of vote to one minute, and to
see that that time-limit is respected.
146. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
The representative of Senegal has called for the applica-
tionof rule 72, which provides that two represen-
tatives may speak in favour of,' and. two against a
proposal. I would point out particularly that the repre-
sentative of Senegal has requested a time-limitof one
minute. It is therefore desirable that we hear the
opinions of speakers who' may wish to speak for or
against the proposal.
147. Mr. OGBU (Nigeria): It is now 1.45 p.m, ac-
cording to my watch and some oi' us have various
things to do. Therefore, may I express the view of
my delegation in full support of the proposal by the
representative of Senegal.

148. Mr. DRISS (Tunisia) (interpretation from
French): I merely wish to support the proposal of the
representative of Senegal.
149. The 'PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): .
Two speakers have now spoken in' support of the
proposal by the representative of Senegal. No repre-
sentatives have indicated a wish to speak against' the
proposal. I therefore take it that there is a consensus
in favour of the proposalof the representative of
Senegal concerning limiting the time for an explana-
tion of vote.

150. The proposal of Senegal is very explicit with
regard to the duration of the statements for the expla-
nations of vote that are to be given before the vote.
It is on that specific point that I have consulted the
Assembly. Two speakers have spoken in favour,
namely, Nigeria and Tunisia. I have consulted the
Assembly and no delegation . . .

151. I call upon the representative of the United
.Kingdom.

152. Mr. RICHARD (United Kingdom): I desire
t~ say only one or two things, and I shall, with the
permission of the Assembly, be brief.

153. We have indeed sat here for a long time. We
have indeed listened to. some long speeches, and the
representative of Nigeria, with respect to him, was
not the shortest of all the orators that we have heard
this morning.

154. As I understand the proposal that is being
made by the representative of Senegal it is that all
speakers in explanation of vote, whether they are to
speak before the vote or after the vote, should be
limited to a period of 60 seconds. I would only de-
scribe that proposal as a total denial of somethirig
that my country happens to believe in rather strongly,
and that is the right of people, if they" are to be con-
demned, to have their say, and therefore I strongly
oppose the proposal which the representative of
Senegal has put forward before this Assembly. It would
seem, with full respect . . .

155. Mr. FALL (Senegal) (interpretation from
French): Point of order.

156. Mr. RICHARD (United Kingdom): May. I try to
answer the representative for he has had at least three
goes this morning? .



27% General ~mbly--TwentY,;"'pth SEalon-PleIDU'Y Meetlnp

157. It does seem to me quite a simple proposal.
It is this: many of us in this room today and various
nations represented here today have views about the
issues that are before the Assembly. There are at least
two important amendments. I am speaking as a repre-
sentative from one of the countries which may, in the
Security Council. have to consider this issue to which
we have obviously' given a great deal of thought.
Like the representatives of Nigeria, Cuba, Mexico
and Bulgaria, I would find it difticult,on behalf of
my country, to put forward what I hope would be'a
sensible and coherent point of view in a time-limit
of 60 seconds, and therefore I oppose this proposal.
158~ The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
I call on the representative of Senegal.on a point of
order.
i59. Mr. FALL (Senegal) (interpretation .from
French): I rose to a point of order at the very moment
when the preceding speaker was on the rostrum for
I wanted to remind him that the' discussion is now
confined to my motion and not to the general debate.
If the representative of the United Kingdom is not
yet convinced of the feelings of the Assembly as
regards apartheid, very well then, I think there is
nothing further to be said. There is none so deaf as he
who will not hear,
160. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
I call on the representative of South Africa.

161. Mr. BOTHA (South Africa): I shall be very .
brief. What a travesty we have witnessed here today!
What a ploy to deny a country its rlghrto address this-
Assembly! I object strenuously to this shameful
action s :I fully support the views expressed by the
representative of the United Kingdom.

162. the PRESIDENT (interpretation.from French):
The Assembly has before it a proposal by Senegal
in .conformity with 'rule 72 of the rules of procedure.
Two speakers-s-Tunisia and Nigeria-have spoken
in support of the proposal. Two other speakers, also
within the framework of rule 72~that is to say\' the
representatives of the United Kingdom and South
Africa-have spoken against the proposal. I shall now
consult the Assembly on that proposal.

163. I call on the representative. of Saudi Arabia
on a point of order. .

164. Mr. BAROODY (Saudi Arabia): It is very ob-
vious that this Assembly is becoming ultra-emotional,
and,it,is not right that we should take a decision'when
we are in such a state. Anything which may set a
precedent will be regretted. .

165. In view of the fact that .I yield to my good'
brother and colleague from Senegal by withdrawing
my amendment to the draft. resolutio.n,although
I thought it had its place' there--:-incidenUilly, Sir,
you will announce what I have done with that amend-
mend; I am not t.alkiJ::isab9ut. it-I do plead, with him,
in view of the fact that such a procedure might con-
stitute a dangerousprecedent, to ~just as I was
when I yielded-generous and ask the President to
call upon .the representatives to be as concise in expla-
nation of their votes as it is humanly' possible to be
and I am sure he is notgoingto refuse me my appeal ;
to him. If he does, I will not be ansry" with him but
I will know how to approach him next time.

1~.TbePRESIDENT (interpretationfrom French):
I call upon the representative of Senegal on a point
oforder. ·1
167. Mr., FALL (Senegal) (interpretation from
French): Since the representative of Saudi Arabia
has been so courteous to me, it is perfectly logical
that I should be courteous to him. I shall therefore
make. a minor change in my earlier proposal. Although
I do think that the representative. of South Africa
does not need more than a minute to confirm to the
Assembly that he maintains his policy of apanheid,
because that is all that he will have to say, I propose
that we allow speakers five m\nutes to speak, with a
clear understanding that if speakers could speak for
a shorter time the Assembly would, be most grateful
to them.
168. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
It is my impression that the appeals and the polite
gestures which have been exchanged -here might
spare us the necessity of taking a vote. Accordingly,
I call on the representative of South Africa to make
a brief explanation of vote before proceeding to vote
on the report of the Credentials Committee.
169.. Mr. BOTHA (South Africa): South Africa's
views on 'the credentials' issue are wetl-known and
documented. They can be briefly summarized. as
follows. South' Africa's credentials in due form, that
is, signed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, were
submitted 'un -16 September 1974 to the Secretary-
General, who, according to his subsequent report
to the Credentials Committee, found- 'them to be. in
order. They were issued in the same form as they
have been issued since. this Organization came into
existence, and almost as long by the same Govern-
ment. On the foregoing basis, there can be no -ques-
tion that South Africa's credentials are in order and
should be accepted as such.

170. The act of rejecting a country's credentials
illegally and without factual justification damages
the reputation of this Organization, establishes. prec-
edents which jeopardize the. rights of all Members
in 'the future-s-since every country is sui generis in
some respects-and derogates from the principles
of universality. It is also the antithesis of the concept
of this Organization as one of peace, conciliation,
co-operation and negotiation.

171. Turning now to draft resolution AIL.731, my
delegation strongly opposes it. We, do not believe
that the course of action proposed in that draft rep-
resents the manner in which this Organization should
seek to resolve disputes and differences of opinion.
This draft resolution threatens to lead to confronta-
tion and is therefore self-defeating and counter-pro-
ductive. We are in an era of detente. We have seen
the dramatic .results to which a deliberate policy of
discussion,and communication in East..West relations
can lead,. Why is the same approach not applied to
South Africa1 .

172. The .step envisaged in the draft 'resolution is
a move backwards,," and we regret that African coun-
tries shopld ~responsiblefor it. We are ourselves
an African State. We wish to live in harmony.and to
co.-operate with other4-frican States. We complement
one another. Wel have much to offer one another. We
h~ve much to gain politically, sociahyand.economi-



273

cally from communicating with one another. We
should replace sterile confrontation with productive
co-operation. We~ for our part, are ready to seek
and to explore opportunities for coming to an under-
standing with Africa. We believe that policies of
communication and co-operation' are essential for
Africa if that continent is to inherit the greatness
which should be its destiny.
173. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
We have just heard the last speaker in explanation
of vote before the vote on the draft resolution ap-
proving the first report of the Credentials Committee.
174. The General Assembly will now vote on the
draft resolution submitted orally by the Chairman of
that Committee. I understand that the Mexicanamend-
ment was merely a suggestion to the sponsors and
was not presented formally. After the vote on the draft
resolution submitted by the Chainnanof theCreden-
tials Committee, the General Assembly will vote on
draft resolution AIL.731, which has now been issued
in a revised version to bring the Ih,t of sponsors up to
date [AIL.731/Rev.l]. The representative of Saudi
Arabia has informed me that his amendment has now
become a draft resohnion.? We shall.·therefore, vote
on the draft resolution AIL.731/Rev.1 before we vote
on the draft resolution submitted by the representative

.of Saudi Arabia. .
175. A recorded vote has been requested on the
draft resolution submitted orally by the Chairman
of the Credentials Committee..

A recorded vote was taken.

In favour: .Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argen-
tina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic,
Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic;
Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho,B Liberia, Libyan
Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar,Romania, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Th~land,
Togo,Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Bmirates, Unit~d
Republic of Cameroon, .United Republic of Tanzania,
Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,Zambia.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia,
Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, France, .Germany
(Federal Republic ot), Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nicaragua,. Norway,
Portugal, South Africa., Sweden, United. ~ingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America, Uruguay.

Abstaining:· Botswana, Brazil, Chile, . Dominican
Republic, Greece, Guatemala,Honduras, Jap~n,
Malawi, Mexico,.· New Zealand, Paraguay, Spal",
Venezuela.

The draft resolution was adopted by 98 votes to 23;
with 14 abstentions (resolution 3206 (XXIX».
176. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
I shall now call on those representatives who wish
to explain their vote after the vote. .'
177. "Mr. de OUIRINGAUD (France) (interpreta-
tion from French): It is. in my ~apacity as represen-
tative of the country which is atpresent President
of the European Community tl\at I would wish to
explain the vote .that has been c~st by its nine mem-
ber States. "
178. The position that we. have taken is basedon
legalconsiderations alone. We note that in the absence
of any other provisions, the powers of the Committee
responsible for the verification of the credentials
of representatives of Member States. are limited by
the rules of procedure of .the General Assembly to
de facto verifications completely unrelated to the
policies of the Governments. concerned. In those
circumstances, with the Committee having 'failed
to accept the credentials of a delegation for reasons
unconnected with the rules of procedure of the As-
sembly, we have no other choice but to vote against
the draft resolution. We consider, indeed, that an
organization which does not respect its own funda-
mental law becomes, by the same token. an organ-
ization that is vulnerable, and its members them-
selves run the risk 'of becoming the victims of that
weakness.
179. The countries of the European .. Community
understand and respect the' feelings which, in the
course of 'the past session and this year again during
the work of the .Credentials Committee, and ·during
this meeting, have been expressed by numerous
representatives, those of Africa in p\lrlicular,·and have
led them to denounce the policy.of apartheid of the
GovemmentofSouthAfrica. We understand them and
we respect them, especially since the European Gov-
ernments-on numerous occasions and in the clearest
possible way, some of them most recently in this very
Hall-have indicated strong disapproval of the policy
which is called apartheid.

180. It is, I think, unnecessary for us to point out
again how much a policy which, under the guise.of
separate development divides men on the basis of the
colour of their skins, is at variance with our duty
universally to respect "human rights" and "funda-
mental freedoms for all without distinction as to
race, sex, language, or religion", which the Charter
imposes upon Member States.

181.t.fust we once again denounce 'not only the
absurdity of such a .. system but.also.the tensions and
injustices that it creates in South Africa? Need we,
in particular, deplore here the. refusal~nd the denial
of civil rights to more than .•7 'million Africans? .All
of this is far removed from our conception' ofreia-
tions between human beings and from the democratic
traditions of the nine countries of the EuropeanCom..
munity for it to be necessary to dwell on the matter.:

182~ -We are convinced that no one in this Assembly
will misunderstandthe meaning of our vote.

183. Mr. SINGH (Nepal): We have voted in favour
or' the draft resolution keeping in mind the view
expressed-by Mr. Hambro.v President of the twenty..

·t.



Z74 ".'. Genenl Auembly-Twenly.nlnth SessIoD-Plenary Mcetlnp

tifthsession of the General Assembly on the report of
the Credentials Committee. We believe that the rejec-
tion of the credentials of South Africa is an expres- .
sion of the. vehement condemnation of the racist
an~, oppressive.p~licy of the Pretoria resime.
184. Mr. GONZALEZ ARIAS (Paraguay) (interpre-
tation from Spanish}: Rule 27 of the rules of procedure
clearly lays· down the manner in which., credentials
have to be presented. There is no need for me to
dwell on that. EquallyweU known is the view expressed
during the twenty-fifth session of the General As-
sembly by the Legal Counsel of the Organization on
the matter of credentials." .
185. In conformity with the afore-mentioned provi-
sion and the opinion ofthe Legal Counsel ofthe United
Nations, it is by no means the responsibility of the
Credentials Committee to consider whether or not
the Government issuing the credentials is' the legiti-
mate representative of the people of a Member State.
If that thesis were accepted, we would be violating

, the very clear provision referred to earlier.
186. ,. On the ba$js of what has been provided, and
faithful to its rule of respect for the provisions of law,
the delegation ofParaguay abstained in the vote. on the
draft resolution. Had we voted in favour, we would
have violated our traditional legal position, which is
in confol1llity, with the law; and had we .. voted against,
we" would have voted against out own credentials
as well and against those of many whose credentials
are in order.
181. Mr. FUENTES IBANEZ (Bolivia) (interpreta-
tion from ~panish): My delegation,inkeeping with
its position on the report of the Credentials Com-
mittee, has voted against the draft resolution. Our
vote is based on the same reasons as in previous
years, namely that the Committee must-strictly adhere
to the powers .granted to it by rule 27 of its rules of
procedure. Our vote in no way, implies solidarity
with or tolerance, overt or covert, of racist policies,
to which'my country, by 'tradition and principle,has
always stated its opposition. .

188. Mr.:RAE (Canada): I wish to explain the vote
of the Canadian .delegation on the substantive pro-
positions which have-been placed before the General
Assembly this 'morning.

189. The Canadian delegation voted against the draft
resolutionapproving the first report of the Credentials
Committee. Our negative vote related exclusively to
that part of the Committee's report which singles
out for rejection the credentials of the delegation of
SoutbAfrica. This vote in no way derogates from the
abhorrence with which Canada regards the; racistpoli-
cies of the Government of South Africa. However,
the issue before the Credentials Committee .and be-
fore this Assembly when we took up the ,Committee's
report was not whether the. policies followed by the
Government of South Africa . were acceptable
but ·wbetlier .the credentials,of the South' African
delegation .were in.ke~ping with the. terms of rule. 27
of>this Assembly's.~rules 'of procedure. Since we
understand that the credentials are so in order, the
Canadian delegation opposed the proposition that
they be rejected..

190. The question of South Africa's participation
in our work bas been ,examine4 at length in the state-

ments of the representatives. who havespoken on the
second matter brought before us today-draft resolu-
tion A/L.731/Rev.1. We believe that 'the increasing
universality of this Organization-a trend which
Canada has strongly supported-is one of its greatest
strengths. We do not accept that our attitude towards
the. racial policies of the South African Government
should lead us to contemplate limiting or curtailing
the right of that Government's delegation to parti-
cipate in the work of the United Nations. It remains
Canada's view that our best chance. of achieving
modification of the South African Government's
policies in the direction of accordance with the goals
of the Charter lies in particiJiation, ip discussion and
in dialogue. Lines of comniurticatfpn must be kept
open if ideas are to be exchanged, attitudes modified
and' policies revised. Only thus can the full force of
international opinion be developed and brought to bear
on problems of concern to all of us, wherever they
may occur.

191. It is against this background and with these
considerations in mind that the Canadian delegation
will support draft resolution A/L.7) I/Rev. L We are
vigorously opposed, as that. text declares, to the
policy of apartheid practised by the Government of
South, Africa. We are deeply concerned that the Gov-
ernment of South Africa has not heeded the repeated
injunctions of the General Assembly to modify that
policy. But our vote for the draft resolution calling
upon the Security Council to review this unhappy
situation in no way detracts from the firmly held
Canadian view that any step to isolate the South
African Government from participation in, and direct
exposure to, the opinions of this Assembly would
only reduce our chances of success in modifying
policies to which we are resolutely, opposed. Our
vote in favour of draft resolution AIL.73t/Rev.1 in
no way derogates from this position consistently
adopted by Canada, since the draft resolution does
not prejudge the outcome of the review which the
Security Council is asked to undertake.

192. Mr. EHSASSI (Iran): As in today's debate
substantive procedural as well as legal aspects of the
policy of apartheid pursued by the South African
Government were not clarified enough, my delega-
tion has considered it necessary to explain its vote.

193. As the. consistent pattern of voting of my
delegation in this' Assembly and its subsidiary bodies
as well as in other international organizations within
the United Nations system clearlydemonstrates, we
have .always categorically condemned the shameful
apartheid and colonial policies'of the 'South African
Government. And. we have contributed regularly
to the United Nations and OAU funds for the sup-
port of the victhnsofapartheid and colonialism in
southern Africa.

194.· We have voted in favour, of the draft resolu-
tion.approving the first report of the Credentials Com-
mittee in cc:mformity with the policy followed by .our
delegation at previous sessions.of.the 'General .As-
sembly: However, as we 'havemade abundantly .cleiit'
fn previous years, we do not think that the Creden-
tials Committee is the proper organ of the UnitedNa-
tions .to discuss the substantive- aspect of the repre-
sentation of Member States; we 'think that Committee
should deal solely with the question of credentials



as .far as the administrative and proceduralaspects Nations must be governed by the Charter and that we
of the question are concerned. Th~refore, had the mustbe govemed'by the.rulesof procedure which we
~revious pattern ofvotingt)een followed, .my' del~g~- have drawn:lIpfo(';ourselve~.,
uon would have voted the, same.way as m.p,ev.()~s 201. Last weeka representative came to this rostrum
years. ' . and said that he valued friendships id this Assembly
195. As .far as draft resolution A/L.731/Rev.lis a great deal, but that he valued the rules otprece-
concerned, we will abstain in the vote on it because dure and the Charter more. We value them a great
we were not given the opportunity of dispatching the deal for, it we now choose to dis~gard thembeceuse
text to our Government 10 advance. emotions are aroused by policies;~hich we fin,d obje~-
196. Mr. RICHARD (United Kingdom): May I say !ion~bJe, we wil~cease ~o be, thc;:\discjplined Qr~an-
at the outset that, as the representative of a mem- tzation t,hat the mtern.at~onal commuDltfhas a nght
ber of the Buropea» Community, 'I should like to to expect us lobe. T~lS ~ss~e, as. say, IS therefore a
associate my. delegation and my country with the legalone and a.constltuttonal, one.
remarks made '~y .tbe representative' 'of ,France. 202. In the view of my delegation it is essential thar
I should, however, like toexpJain why I1)Y delega- we respect the .right of any Member of this Organ-
tion 'voted against the rejection of the credentials of ization to present its views and to take partin the pro-
the delegation of South Africaand why we will abstain ceedings of tile Organization and it does .not matter
on the draft resolution which-refers the-matter to the whether we agree or whether we disagree with those
Security Council. views. The, United Nations depends on, indeed it
197. As has often, been' made .,verY .clear before, exist~ for"the freeexchan~e of views, some ofwhich
it is the view of the United KingQom that theconsi- we wtll.tind o~rselves p~sslona~e~f and ~~eplY,oppos~d
deration of credentials is a technical and alegal matter. t~. UDlve~a~ty ofmem~rshlri IS ~!' ,Imp~~nt pnn-
The sole issue 'aswe understaridit under tbe·Charter ciple and It IS on~ to, which the United Kmgdom at-
and the rules ~f.pJ:ocedure is whether or .noi.creden- ~ach~s very great Importance.
tialsare accepted as documents In order. There has. 203. Mr. ROSALES (El Salvador) (interpretation
been no suggestion in. the present case that the creden-' from, Spanish): El Salvador voted in favoutof .the
tials of the delegation of South Africa were not, in draft r,esolution approving the report ofthe Credentials,
order. Comrrii~teebecause the manner in which it was put

OM ~. " .' • to the vote made it necessary to cast ;in affirmative
198. ,I do not n~ed .thls afterno~n t~ repe~t.at length vote. The contrary would entail -8;, legal contresens
my Gove~ment.s views 0" the ,racla~ policl~s .of t~e and wouldmean thenon-recognlnon of the credentials
~o?th A~ncan. Government. The United Kingdoms ofalmost all of the representatives to this Assembly,
tt~tu~e s. qutte clear, We condemn t~em clearly our own included. Moreover my' Government ha

and unequivocally. W~ have made our views known •. , be" '. .: I" .." ' h'. ,s
and felt.to the Government of South Africa. TheGov- a ways en,ag;u~st.the·po ICy of apartheid,
ernment of South Africa' has ignored npny resolu- 204. Mr. RAMPHUL(Mauritius): lam sad;' I 'am
tions of the General Assembly calling upon them to very sad indeed! I feelli~e weepingl But not because
change their policies.. 'They continue to ignore those this Assembly has once again, by an overwhelming
resolutions at their peril. But that is 'not a matter . majority, rejected the credentials of the representatives
which we are entitled to have regard to when we are •. of the racistminority of Vorster, on the recommend.a-
dealing with the credentials of representatives. We, lion of the-Credentials Committee, but, rathel';be-
are not entitled ,to reject those credentials unless a. . cause, a, great ,many of my'African' brothersarestiU
proper objection to them on technical grounds 'is made in prison in South Africa and undergoing, humilia-
and is held to be weU founded. No such objection has tion and torture and: are being denied, basic- Htjirian
been made at all in this present caseand therefore, in rights while they are being oppressed in the most
our view, there can clearly be no reason to reject Fescist, inhuman and unchristian manner.. , ,
them, 205. I am sad because they are not here behind the
199> This is not, however, just a matter of proce- sign of "South Africa

u
in the seats that theiroppres-

dure and technicality. It is a serious matter for the sors are shamelessly occupying. I pray and hope that
United Nations and for the functioning of the Organ- in the verY near future my African brothers, true
izatio~. If it is intended to prevent the South African leaders and genuine representatives of their people
delegation from taking part in the proceedings of the -and not stooges and, stool, pigeons-will occupy
Assembly or to suspend it or even to expel it, then a their rightful seats, no doubt af~er changing the sign
very 'precise procedure is laid down by the Charter. as well to t~atof'.'Azania"., ' ..•. ,',
Those ends cannot be achieved through the rejection 206. I also hope and, pray that',by next 'session,tms
of credentials. ' Assembly will be. somehow enriched by·the·participa-
200.' ,May,I .~ay in,this respect that the United King- tion of.the true representatives -,ofAniola,the~Como-
dom,is, not opposed" to the reference tq the Security. ros, Mozambique', Namibia, SeycheUes,Zimbabwe
Council which is contained ,in the draft resolution and other areas of occupied Africa., 1 hope that sanity ~
[AIL.Z32] by Saudi Arabia.lnf;leed, thea~ti~udec>fmy and justice will soon,prevaiLinsouthern Africa;rother-
cQuntry:i~,set out .in br.oadand i~genera\~ennsinthe 'wise they,wiIljust have to be.madeto .prevailby~all
draft r«:.solu.tion. Weeully share hisviews that, pending right-thinking people of the world.
the ,decision by the Security COUllcil" thC' Govern- 207. In the meantime, although not myselfa Christian
ment of Soutb Africa should forthwith take drasticac- but only educatedbg Christian missionaries' during
tio", to rectifY the anomalo,us. situation whic" .exists my tender years, I praY.Jorthe.Christian souls.of the
in its country. But we do believe that we in the United white racist minority of southern ", Afric;a and of·their



-------.

2'76 General Allemhly.....Twenty.Dlnth 8eIIIon-Plenary Meetlnp

allieswS,o, blatantly, support their apartheid policy 216. Mr. JANKOWITSCH (Austria): The votes
by deeds while expressing noble sentiments, in words my delegation has cast and will cast at this meeting
in this Assembly. Let us appeal to them not to disgrace have been the 'subject of serious consideration and
and make a scandal of the name of Christ, who, I am close attention to the debate. As far as our vote on the
told,was not a white man but a black man. May He draft resolution approving the first report of the ere-
enlighten them and may He forgive the white racists dentials Committee is concerned, it reflected our
their despicable sins. views, held consistently, on the nature of this body
208. My delegation has voted in favour of the draft and the scope of its work, which we conceive to be
resolution just adopted by an overwhelming lIll\iority of a strictly legal character. In voting in favour of draft
as a matter of conscience and as the essential neces- resolution ~/L.731/Rev.l, Austria will join a large
sity ofthe lifeof a normal civilized human being, which ml\iority of Members of this Assembly which tran-
seems -to be non-existent in some quarters, especially scends the boundaries of groupings, regions and con-
among the white-minority, racist regime of Vorster. tinents. Our -vote on this _, draft resolution is based

first and foremost on our continued and firm support
209. The PR.ESIDENT(interpretation/rom French): of the policies of this Organlzation on the regime of
Before voting on draft resolution AIL.731/Rev.l apartheid established in South Africa.
I shall call on those representatives who wish to
explain their vote before the vote. 217. This Assembly, the Security Council and many
210. Mr. TEMPLETON (New Zealand)'. The New other organs -of this Organization have repeatedly

reminded the' South Afric.an Government that its
Zealand delegation agrees that in maintaining the policies and actions were in blatant violation of the
repellent policy of apartheid South Africa has com- Charter and its obligations as a Member of the United
mitted a serious violation of the human rights provi- Nations. The Austrian Government firmly rejects the
sions of the Charter. - policy of apartheid, as it rejects any policy based on
211. For some years the Assembly has rejected the human inequality, on grounds of race, religion, polit-
credentials of the South African delegation, and this ical beliefs or other similar motives, We deeply deplore
has been construed by successive Presidents as a that all efforts undertaken by the United Nations over
solemn warning to South Africa to abandon its dis- the decades have been ignored by the Government
criminatory racial policies. That warning has not been of South Africa. .
heeded. . 218. In adhering to these principles, and in voting
212. My delegation agrees that the time has come in favour of the draft resolution proposed by such an
for some action by the Assembly beyond the rejec- impressive group of Members, we want to make it
tion of the credentials of the South African delega- clear, however, that we do not wish in any way. to
tion, about which we have had, in any case, certain prejudice with our votes the action and the steps
legal reservations. The draft resolution appears to the Security Council may take when considering the
my delegation an appropriate step for the ~ssembly question. Acting in the Security Council and othet
to take at this time. It is appropriate that the' Security organs of the Organization, Austria will continue to
Council should examine the situation in the light of approach this question with the deep sense of respon-
South Africa's continued violation of the Charter. sibility which respect for the Charter and the desire
The dra(t resolution does not seek tQ urge upon the for the attainment of the objectives of' this Organiza-
Council any particular course of action. It is right tion-one of which is the objective of universality-
that it should not do so but should leave the Council require from all Members.
free to consider all aspects of the matter and all pos- 219. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
sibilities. The draft resolution therefore has New I shall now put to the vote draft resolution A/L.731/
Zealand's full support. Rev.l. A recorded vote has been requested.

213. The Security Council' will no doubt examine A recorded vote was taken.
the question with the greatest care. New Zealand, ln favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina,
for its part, will follow with close attention the Coun- Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
cil's deliberations on an issue of great concern to Barbados, Belgium,. Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Africa and indeed to all Members of this Organization. Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
214. Mr. KARHILO (F.'inland): On behalf of the Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African
Nordic delegations__Denmark, Iceland, _Norway, RepUblic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Sweden and Finland-I should, like briefly to state Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey,
that we shall all vote in favour of the draft resolution. Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican~epub-
We shall do so because we welcome all efforts by the .Jic, Ecuador, Egypt, El .Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
United .Nations aimed at convincing the Govern- Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Re-
ment of the Republic of South Africa to abandon its public, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana,
policy of apartheid, a policy which the Nordic coun- Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
tries-have consistently condemned and rejected. We ,Guyana, Haiti.. Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,· India,
see in this dratt resolution yet another means by which Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
the question of South ,Africa and its policies in all Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer 'Republic, Kuwait,
theiraspects can be reviewed in a constructive planner. Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia., Libyan Arab

Republic, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali,
21S. I should, however, like to recall that the Nordic Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Governments have always firmly upheld the principle Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands,New zealand, Niger,

.of universality of the membership of the United Na- Nigeria, Norway, Oman', Pakistan, Panama,Pero,
tions and that we shall continue to do so. Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,



2~tbmeed.ng-30 September.},974 277

tes
ing
md
the
re-
our
tdy
be

:aft
rge
an-
on-
sed
ort
: of

my
dly
its

the
ted
the
on

)lit-
ore
ver
lent

ting
I an
e it
'. to
:eps
the
lhel
~ to
ton-
sire
lza-
:y-

eh):
731/

.ina,
esh,
ana,
sian
ican
ngo,
ney,
pub-
Fiji,
Re-

ana,
sau,
ldia,
uca,
vait,
~rab

,fali,
olia,
iger,
~eru,

mia,

Rwanda, Saudi Arabia; Senegal, Sierra. Leone, Singa- .
pore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey', .Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, UruguayvVene-
zuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. . .

Against: South Africa.
Abstaining: France, Iran, Israel, Malawi, Nica-

ragua, Paraguay, Spain, United Kingdom of -Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of Amer-
ica.

The draft resolution was adopted by /25 votes to / J
with 9 abstentions (resolution 3207 (XXIX».
220. The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
A number of delegations have expressed the wish to
explain their votes after the voting. I shall now give
them the floor.
221. Mr. SCALI (United States of America): My
delegation finds the policy of apartheid an illegal
and obnoxious violation of fundamental human rights.
It is as contrary to that for which my Government
stands as it is to that for which the United Nations
stands. We understand why many seek this oppor-
tunity to assert their moral outrage at this heinous

.policy. For our part, however, we do not believe that
the question of credentials was an appropriate one
for that purpose: The purpose ofevaluating the authen-
ticity of the credentials submitted to the Secretary-
General is clearly to ensure that the individuals rep-
resenting States in this body have been authorized
to do so by the Government of the country they are
here to represent. The policies of those Governments
are not a legitimate ..consideration in that context.
There are other times and other contexts in which they
may be, but what is unquestionably true is that here
they are not. .

222. No one can reasonably argue with the facts
that South Africa is a Member of the United Nations;
that the Government which has sent representatives
to this Assembly is indeed the Government in power
in that country; that an appropriate official of that
country signed the necessary credentials documents;
and that they were submitted in a proper, timely way.
223. Since we do not regard this as the appropriate
item for expressing the Assembly's views on the
policy of apartheid or on the representative nature
of the Government of South Africa-or other Mem-
bers which do not elect governments by universal
free elections-our vote against this report does not
diminish our opposition to these unfortunate practices.
224. My delegation abstained on the draft resolution
referring this matter to the Security Council. The
preambular paragraphs contained statements of un-
deniable and tragic accuracy. As I said, the policy of
apartheid, we believe, is illegal, immoral and fun-
damentally repugnant. It is the obligation of the United
Nations to be concerned and to seek to take 'steps to
eliminate such outrages. We are not convinced, how-
ever, that the Security Council is the appropriate
forum for discussing such issues. For this reason we
did not believe it appropriate to cast a positive vote.
Since others wished to discuss this question in the
Security Council, and we favour, wherever legally

. .
possible, the right of all Members to state their views
in the forum of their, choice, we did not believe it ap-
propriate for us to cast a negative vote. Since we were
neither in a position to vote in favour nor of a mind to
oppose, we abstained.. Of course, our abstention is
without prejudice to the position my Government
will take in the Security Council when this matter is
discussed there.
225. Mr. KAUFMANN' (Netherlands): I should
like the record to confirm that the Netherlands dele-
gation voted against. the draft resolution .approving
the report of the Credentials Committee for the rea-
sons clearly explained by the representative ofFrance,
who spoke on behalf.of the European Community.
In 'other words, while the Netherlands, as is .. well
known, .strongly 'rejects the policy of apartheid, we
feel' that credentials must be considered on their own
legal and formal merits.' ..

226.. The Netserlands delegation voted in,favour ·,of
draft resolution AIL.731/~ev.1 because we agree that
the proposed review by the SecurityCounciHs proper, .
timely and in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter. .

227. Mr. von WECHMAR .(Federal Republic of
Germany): My' delegation voted in favour of draft
resolution AIL.731/Rev ~ I. We strongly condemn the
policy of apartheid and racial .discriminationas. well
as the refusal of the South African Government to
comply with the' relevant decisions of the Organiza-
tion. Only recently 12239th meeting] my Foreign
Minister, Mr. Genscher, reaffirmed our attitude from
this rostrum. We therefore sympathizewith the re-
quest that the Security Council review the relation-
ship between the United Nations and South Africa,
as it has done .already on several occasions. How-
ever, I feel obliged tostatetbat we 'continue to have
some legal doubts regarding the first preambular
paragraph. Since they have already been 'expressed
by the representative of France when he spoke on
behalf. of the nine members.p( the European Com-
munity on the draft resolution approving the report
of the Credentials Committee, I shall refrain from
i,;:peating them here in detail.

.'

228. The PRESIDENT (interpretation'from French):
Before putting to the. vote the draft resolution pro-
posed by the representative of Saudi Arabia [AIL.732],
I call upon the representative of Senegal on a point
of order.

229. Mr. FALL (Senegal) (interpretation from
French): It is late, and I believe we should now be
beginning our afternoon meeting. The draft resolu-
tion distributed to us, sponsored by the representative
of Saudi Arabia IAlL.732], has not been studied .by
the majority of members of this Assembly. Moreover,
the draft resolution takes as its reference the resolu-
tion entitled "Relationship between the United Na-
tions and South Africa", which has just been adopted.
For that reason, basing myself on the provisions of
rule 78.of the rules of procedure, I' would request the
President to postpone consideration of this question
until more information is available.

230. Mr. BAROODY (Saudi Arabia): It is late, and
the representative of Senegal has raised a relevant
point-that is, that members of the Assembly have
not had time to study in depth draft resolution A/L.732



278 Genenl Aaembly-Twenty~nlnlhSellla. Pleury Meetl....

NOTES

The meeting rose at 3.05 p.m,

I &l~ Offil'ial Ret'ords Ilf the General Assembly, Twenty-fifth
Session, Plenary Meetings. 1901st meetinl. para. 286.

Z Subsequently l::irculated as document A/9622.
) Legal Consequences for States of the Continued Presence of

South Afrit'a in Namibia (South West Africa) notwithstanding
Set'urity Council resolution 276 (/970). Advisory Opinion, I.C.J.
Reports /971. p. ~6. ,

4 See Official Ret'ords of the Se(.'urity Council, Nineteenth
Year. Supplement for April, May and June /964, document
S/5658. annex.

$ See A/SPC/PV.693. pp. 38-40 to 47. For a summary of this
statemen,t, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-
fifth Selsion. Special Political Commillee. Summary Records of
Meetings.693n1 mectina. paras. 30 to 35.

6 See O/pcia/ Ret'ords of the General Assembly, Twenty-
fourth Session. Annexes, aaenda item 106. document A/77S4.

7 Subsequently circulated as document A/L.732.
• The deleaation of Lesotho subsequently informed the Secre-

tariat thet it had intended to abstain in the vote on the draft reso-
lution.

9 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-fifth
Session, Annexes. aaenda item 3, document A/8160.

that 1 originally submitted as an amendment but, in 234. The Prime Minister of Australia is to address
consultation with representatives of some African the Assembly this afternoon, and we should show him
States, decided to resubmit as a separate draft reso-', );lll the courtesy that is due him, as well as to his Gov-
lution, "; "eriunent and people. Hence, on the understanding
231. I shall now say something that I believe will that .my draft resolution will be studied in depth by
please everyone, in view of the very heavy agenda members of the Assembly, I declare it suspended for
before us. the time being, reserving my right to request that it

be acted upon at any time I deem fit.
232. First, I would.make it clear that I am not with-
drawing my draft resolution. The purpose of sub- 235. The PRESIDENT (interpretation/ram French):
mitting it was precisely to give a last warning to our I believe that the proposal of the representative of
colleagues from South Africa. We urge them to take Senegaland that of the representative of Saudi Arabia,
drastic action-l would note that the word "meas- while not identical, are very similar. The Assembly
ures" is not used-and to take such action forthwith, therefore does not have to takeJadecision on the draft
before the Security Council pronounces itself on this ·resolution A/L.732 immediately, and perhaps not in
matter. I am not a betting man, but if I were, I would the very near future. .
bet that there will be a veto in the Security Council.
I hope I am wrong, but I wanted to submit this draft
resolution so that South Africa would have 'advance
warning. And I would ask the African States to re-
member that this is an advance warning. Do you
really think that Baroody would do anything toexac-
erbate matters? I repeat that this is an advance warning
to South Africa before the Security Council meets.
That will make it clear to everyone concerned that
we have done everything in our power, and if South
Africa does not conform to the will of the majority
--a will that has been evidenced by the 125 votes just
cast in favour of draft resolution AIL.73li'Rev.1-
tben we shall have to wash our hands of the matter.
233. I shall not go into the substance of the Creden-
tials Committee's report. I have stated my position
on this question four or five times in the past. I would
only repeat that I am not withdrawing mydraft resolu-
tion but, in view of the fact that it is late and that what
we have said here is to be regarded as a last warning
to South Africa, I am suspending the submission of
that draft resolution to a date later' in the session.
I shall resubmit the text if I feel that a vote on it by the
General Assembly would, as it were, make assurance
doubly sure; that is, that it wo.uld ensure that South
Africa had got the message.




