













































Etpu


 United Nations  S/2015/547 

  

Security Council  Distr.: General 
20 July 2015 

 

Original: English 

 

 

15-12242 (E)    270715     

*1512242* 
 

 

  Draft resolution 
 

 

 The Security Council, 

 Recalling the Statement of its President, S/PRST/2006/15, and its resolutions 

1696 (2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), and 1929 

(2010), 

 Reaffirming its commitment to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 

Weapons, the need for all States Party to that Treaty to comply fully with their 

obligations, and recalling the right of States Party, in conformity with Articles I and 

II of that Treaty, to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for 

peaceful purposes without discrimination,  

 Emphasizing the importance of political and diplomatic efforts to find a 

negotiated solution guaranteeing that Iran’s nuclear programme is exclusively for 

peaceful purposes, and noting that such a solution would benefit nuclear  

non-proliferation,  

 Welcoming diplomatic efforts by China, France, Germany, the Russian 

Federation, the United Kingdom, the United States, the High Representative of the 

European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, and Iran to reach a 

comprehensive, long-term and proper solution to the Iranian nuclear issue, 

culminating in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) concluded on  

14 July 2015, (S/2015/544, as attached as Annex A to this resolution) and the 

establishment of the Joint Commission,  

 Welcoming Iran’s reaffirmation in the JCPOA that it will under no 

circumstances ever seek, develop or acquire any nuclear weapons,  

 Noting the statement of 14 July 2015, from China, France, Germany, the 

Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the European 

Union aimed at promoting transparency and creating an atmosphere conducive to 

the full implementation of the JCPOA (S/2015/545, as attached as Annex B to this 

resolution), 

 Affirming that conclusion of the JCPOA marks a fundamental shift in it s 

consideration of this issue, and expressing its desire to build a new relationship with 

Iran strengthened by the implementation of the JCPOA and to bring to a satisfactory 

conclusion its consideration of this matter,  

 Affirming that full implementation of the JCPOA will contribute to building 

confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme,  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 2/104 

 

 Strongly supporting the essential and independent role of the International 

Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in verifying compliance with safeguards 

agreements, including the non-diversion of declared nuclear material to undeclared 

purposes and the absence of undeclared nuclear material and undeclared nuclear 

activities, and, in this context, in ensuring the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran’s 

nuclear programme, including through the implementation of the “Framework for 

Cooperation” agreed between Iran and the IAEA on 11 November 2013 and the 

“Roadmap for Clarification of Past and Present Outstanding Issues”, and 

recognizing the IAEA’s important role in supporting full implementation of the 

JCPOA,  

 Affirming that IAEA safeguards are a fundamental component of nuclear  

non-proliferation, promote greater confidence among States, inter alia, by providing 

assurance that States are complying with their obligations under relevant safeguards 

agreements, contribute to strengthening their collective security and help to create 

an environment conducive to nuclear cooperation, and further recognizing that 

effective and efficient safeguards implementation requires a cooperative effort 

between the IAEA and States, that the IAEA Secretariat will continue to engage in 

open dialogue on safeguards matters with States to increase transparency and build 

confidence and to interact with them on the implementation of safeguards, and in 

this case, avoid hampering the economic and technological development of Iran or 

international cooperation in the field of peaceful nuclear activities; respect health, 

safety, physical protection and other security provisions in force and the rights of 

individuals; and take every precaution to protect commercial, technological and 

industrial secrets as well as other confidential information coming to its knowledge,  

 Encouraging Member States to cooperate, including through IAEA 

involvement, with Iran in the framework of the JCPOA in the field of peaceful uses 

of nuclear energy and to engage in mutually determined civil nuclear cooperation 

projects, in accordance with Annex III of the JCPOA,  

 Noting the termination of provisions of previous resolutions and other 

measures foreseen in this resolution, and inviting Member States to give due regard 

to these changes, 

 Emphasizing that the JCPOA is conducive to promoting and facilitating the 

development of normal economic and trade contacts and cooperation with Iran, and 

having regard to States’ rights and obligations relating to international trade,  

 Underscoring that Member States are obligated under Article 25 of the Charter 

of the United Nations to accept and carry out the Security Council’s decisions,  

 1. Endorses the JCPOA, and urges its full implementation on the timetable 

established in the JCPOA;  

 2. Calls upon all Members States, regional organizations and international 

organizations to take such actions as may be appropriate to support the 

implementation of the JCPOA, including by taking actions commensurate with the 

implementation plan set out in the JCPOA and this resolution and by refraining from 

actions that undermine implementation of commitments under the JCPOA;  

 3. Requests the Director General of the IAEA to undertake the necessary 

verification and monitoring of Iran’s nuclear-related commitments for the full 

duration of those commitments under the JCPOA, and reaffirms that Iran shall 



 
S/2015/547 

 

3/104 15-12242 

 

cooperate fully as the IAEA requests to be able to resolve all outstanding issues, as 

identified in IAEA reports;  

 4. Requests the Director General of the IAEA to provide regular updates to 

the IAEA Board of Governors and, as appropriate, in parallel to the Security 

Council on Iran’s implementation of its commitments under the JCPOA and also to 

report to the IAEA Board of Governors and in parallel to the Security Council at any 

time if the Director General has reasonable grounds to believe there is an issue of 

concern directly affecting fulfilment of JCPOA commitments;  

 

  Terminations 
 

 5. Requests that, as soon as the IAEA has verified that Iran has taken the 

actions specified in paragraphs 15.1-15.11 of Annex V of the JCPOA, the Director 

General of the IAEA submit a report confirming this fact to the IAEA Board of 

Governors and in parallel to the Security Council;  

 6. Requests further that, as soon as the IAEA has reached the Broader  

Conclusion that all nuclear material in Iran remains in peaceful activities, the 

Director General of the IAEA submit a report confirming this conclusion to the 

IAEA Board of Governors and in parallel to the Security Council;  

 7. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

that, upon receipt by the Security Council of the report from the IAEA described in 

paragraph  5: 

 (a) The provisions of resolutions 1696 (2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 

1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), 1929 (2010) and 2224 (2015) shall be terminated;  

 (b) All States shall comply with paragraphs 1, 2, 4, and 5 and the provisions 

in subparagraphs (a)-(f) of paragraph 6 of Annex B for the duration specified in 

each paragraph or subparagraph, and are called upon to comply with paragraphs 3 

and 7 of Annex B;  

 8. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

that on the date ten years after the JCPOA Adoption Day, as defined in the JCPOA, 

all the provisions of this resolution shall be terminated, and none of the previous 

resolutions described in paragraph  7 (a) shall be applied, the Security Council will 

have concluded its consideration of the Iranian nuclear issue, and the item  

“Non-proliferation” will be removed from the list of matters of which the Council is 

seized; 

 9. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

that the terminations described in Annex B and paragraph  8 of this resolution shall 

not occur if the provisions of previous resolutions have been applied pursuant to 

paragraph  12; 

 

  Application of Provisions of Previous Resolutions 
 

 10. Encourages China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United 

Kingdom, the United States, the European Union (EU), and Iran (the “JCPOA 

participants”) to resolve any issues arising with respect to implementation of 

JCPOA commitments through the procedures specified in the JCPOA, and expresses 

its intention to address possible complaints by JCPOA participants about significant 

non-performance by another JCPOA participant; 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 4/104 

 

 11. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

that, within 30 days of receiving a notification by a JCPOA participant State of an 

issue that the JCPOA participant State believes constitutes significant  

non-performance of commitments under the JCPOA, it shall vote on a draft 

resolution to continue in effect the terminations in paragraph  7 (a) of this resolution, 

decides further that if, within 10 days of the notification referred to above, no 

Member of the Security Council has submitted such a draft resolution for a vote, 

then the President of the Security Council shall submit such a draft resolution and 

put it to a vote within 30 days of the notification referred to above, and expresses its 

intention to take into account the views of the States involved in the issue and any 

opinion on the issue by the Advisory Board established in the JCPOA;  

 12. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

that, if the Security Council does not adopt a resolution under paragraph  11 to 

continue in effect the terminations in paragraph  7 (a), then effective midnight 

Greenwich Mean Time after the thirtieth day after the notification to the Security 

Council described in paragraph  11, all of the provisions of resolutions 1696 (2006), 

1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), and 1929 (2010) that have 

been terminated pursuant to paragraph  7 (a) shall apply in the same manner as they 

applied before the adoption of this resolution, and the measures contained in 

paragraphs 7,  8 and 16 to 20 of this resolution shall be terminated, unless the 

Security Council decides otherwise; 

 13. Underscores that, in the event of a notification to the Security Council 

described in paragraph  11, Iran and the other JCPOA participants should strive to 

resolve the issue giving rise to the notification, expresses its intention to prevent the 

reapplication of the provisions if the issue giving rise to the notification is resolved, 

decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, that if the 

notifying JCPOA participant State informs the Security Council that such an issue has 

been resolved before the end of the 30-day period specified in paragraph  12 above, 

then the provisions of this resolution, including the terminations in paragraph  7 (a), 

shall remain in effect notwithstanding paragraph  12 above, and notes Iran’s statement 

that if the provisions of previous resolutions are applied pursuant to paragraph  12 in 

whole or in part, Iran will treat this as grounds to cease performing its commitments 

under the JCPOA; 

 14. Affirms that the application of the provisions of previous resolutions 

pursuant to paragraph  12 do not apply with retroactive effect to contracts signed 

between any party and Iran or Iranian individuals and entities prior to the date of 

application, provided that the activities contemplated under and execution of such 

contracts are consistent with the JCPOA, this resolution and the previous 

resolutions; 

 15. Affirms that any application of the provisions of previous resolutions 

pursuant to paragraph  12 is not intended to harm individuals and entities that, prior 

to that application of those provisions, engaged in business with Iran or Iranian 

individuals and entities that is consistent with the JCPOA and this resolution, 

encourages Member States to consult with each other with regard to such harm, and 

to take action to mitigate such unintended harm for these individuals and entities, 

and decides if the provisions of previous resolutions are applied pursuant to 

paragraph  12 not to impose measures with retroactive effect on individuals and 



 
S/2015/547 

 

5/104 15-12242 

 

entities for business activities with Iran that were consistent with the JCPOA, this 

resolution and the previous resolutions prior to the application of these provisions;  

 

  JCPOA Implementation 
 

 16. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, to 

review recommendations of the Joint Commission regarding proposals by States to 

participate in or permit nuclear-related activities set forth in paragraph 2 of Annex B, 

and that such recommendations shall be deemed to be approved unless the Security 

Council adopts a resolution to reject a Joint Commission recommendation within 

five working days of receiving it;  

 17. Requests Member States seeking to participate in or permit activities set 

forth in paragraph 2 of Annex B to submit proposals to the Security Council, 

expresses its intention to share such proposals with the Joint Commission 

established in the JCPOA for its review, invites any Member of the Security Council 

to provide relevant information and opinions about these proposals, encourages the 

Joint Commission to give due consideration to any such information and opinions, 

and requests the Joint Commission to provide its recommendations on these 

proposals to the Security Council within twenty working days (or, if extended, 

within thirty working days); 

 18. Requests the Secretary-General, in order to support JCPOA 

implementation, to take the necessary administrative measures to facilitate 

communications with Member States and between the Security Council and the 

Joint Commission through agreed practical arrangements;  

 19. Requests the IAEA and the Joint Commission to consult and exchange 

information, where appropriate, as specified in the JCPOA, and requests further that 

the exporting states cooperate with the Joint Commission in accordance with Annex IV 

of the JCPOA; 

 20. Requests the Joint Commission to review proposals for transfers and 

activities described in paragraph 2 of Annex B with a view to recommending 

approval where consistent with this resolution and the provisions and objectives of 

the JCPOA so as to provide for the transfer of items, materials, equipment, goods 

and technology required for Iran’s nuclear activities under the JCPOA, and 

encourages the Joint Commission to establish procedures to ensure detailed and 

thorough review of all such proposals;  

 

  Exemptions 
 

 21. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

that the measures imposed in resolutions 1696 (2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 

1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), and 1929 (2010) shall not apply to the supply, sale, or 

transfer of items, materials, equipment, goods and technology, and the provision of 

any related technical assistance, training, financial assistance, investment, brokering 

or other services, by JCPOA participant States or Member States acting in 

coordination with them, that is directly related to: (a) the modification of two cascades 

at the Fordow facility for stable isotope production; (b) the export of Iran’s enriched 

uranium in excess of 300 kilograms in return for natural uranium; and (c) the 

modernization of the Arak reactor based on the agreed conceptual design and, 

subsequently, on the agreed final design of such reactor;  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 6/104 

 

 22. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

that Member States engaging in the activities permitted in paragraph  21 shall ensure 

that: (a) all such activities are undertaken strictly in accordance with the JCPOA; 

(b) they notify the Committee established pursuant to resolution 1737 (2006) and, 

when constituted, the Joint Commission ten days in advance of such activities;  

(c) the requirements, as appropriate, of the Guidelines as set out in the relevant 

INFCIRC referenced in resolution 1737 (2006), as updated, have been met; (d) they 

have obtained and are in a position to exercise effectively a right to verify the end -

use and end-use location of any supplied item; and (e) in case of supplied items, 

materials, equipment, goods and technology listed in the INFCIRCs referenced in 

resolution 1737 (2006), as updated, they also notify the IAEA within ten days of the 

supply, sale or transfers; 

 23. Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, 

also that the measures imposed in resolutions 1696 (2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 

(2007), 1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), and 1929 (2010) shall not apply to the extent 

necessary to carry out transfers and activities, as approved on a case-by-case basis 

in advance by the Committee established pursuant to resolution 1737 (2006), that 

are: 

 (a) directly related to implementation of the nuclear -related actions specified 

in paragraphs 15.1-15.11 of Annex V of the JCPOA;  

 (b) required for preparation for the implementation of the JCPOA; or,  

 (c) determined by the Committee to be consistent with the objectives of this 

resolution; 

 24. Notes that the provisions of paragraphs  21,  22,  23 and  27 continue in 

effect if the provisions of previous resolutions are applied pursuant to paragraph  12; 

 

  Other Matters 
 

 25. Decides to make the necessary practical arrangements to undertake 

directly tasks related to the implementation of this resolution, including those tasks 

specified in Annex B and the release of guidance;  

 26. Urges all States, relevant United Nations bodies and other interested 

parties, to cooperate fully with the Security Council in its exercise of the tasks 

related to this resolution, in particular by supplying any information at their disposal 

on the implementation of the measures in this resolution;  

 27. Decides that all provisions contained in the JCPOA are only for the 

purposes of its implementation between the E3/EU+3 and Iran and should not be 

considered as setting precedents for any other State or for principles of international 

law and the rights and obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 

Nuclear Weapons and other relevant instruments, as well as for internationally 

recognized principles and practices;  

 28. Recalls that the measures imposed by paragraph 12 of resolution 1737 

(2006) shall not prevent a designated person or entity from making payment due 

under a contract entered into prior to the listing of such a person or entity, provided 

that the conditions specified in paragraph 15 of that resolution are met, and 

underscores, that if the provisions of previous resolutions are reapplied pursuant to 

paragraph  12 of this resolution, then this provision will apply;  



 
S/2015/547 

 

7/104 15-12242 

 

 29. Emphasizes the importance of all States taking the necessary measures to 

ensure that no claim shall lie at the instance of the Government of Iran, or any 

person or entity in Iran, or of persons or entities designated pursuant to resolution 

1737 (2006) and related resolutions, or any person claiming through or for the 

benefit of any such person or entity, in connection with any contract or other 

transaction where its performance was prevented by reason of the application of the 

provisions of resolutions 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 1929 (2010) and 

this resolution; 

 30. Decides to remain seized of the matter until the termination of the 

provisions of this resolution in accordance with paragraph  8. 

 

 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 8/104 

 

  Annex A: Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Vienna, 

14 July 2015 
 

 

  PREFACE 
 

The E3/EU+3 (China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United 

Kingdom and the United States, with the High Representative of the European 

Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy) and the Islamic Republic of Iran 

welcome this historic Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), which will 

ensure that Iran’s nuclear programme will be exclusively peaceful, and mark a 

fundamental shift in their approach to this issue. They anticipate that full 

implementation of this JCPOA will positively contribute to regional and 

international peace and security. Iran reaffirms that under no circumstances will Iran 

ever seek, develop or acquire any nuclear weapons.  

Iran envisions that this JCPOA will allow it to move forward with an exclusively 

peaceful, indigenous nuclear programme, in line with scientific and economic 

considerations, in accordance with the JCPOA, and with a view to building 

confidence and encouraging international cooperation. In this context, the initial 

mutually determined limitations described in this JCPOA will be followed by a 

gradual evolution, at a reasonable pace, of Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme, 

including its enrichment activities, to a commercial programme for exclusively 

peaceful purposes, consistent with international non -proliferation norms. 

The E3/EU+3 envision that the implementation of this JCPOA will progressively 

allow them to gain confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran’s 

programme. The JCPOA reflects mutually determined parameters, consistent with 

practical needs, with agreed limits on the scope of Iran’s nuclear programme, 

including enrichment activities and R&D. The JCPOA addresses the E3/EU+3’s 

concerns, including through comprehensive measures providing for transparency 

and verification.  

The JCPOA will produce the comprehensive lifting of all UN Securi ty Council 

sanctions as well as multilateral and national sanctions related to Iran’s nuclear 

programme, including steps on access in areas of trade, technology, finance, and 

energy. 

  



 
S/2015/547 

 

9/104 15-12242 

 

  PREAMBLE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 

i. The Islamic Republic of Iran and the E3/EU+3 (China, France, Germany, the 

Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, with the High 

Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy) 

have decided upon this long-term Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 

(JCPOA). This JCPOA, reflecting a step-by-step approach, includes the 

reciprocal commitments as laid down in this document and the annexes hereto 

and is to be endorsed by the United Nations (UN) Security Council.  

ii. The full implementation of this JCPOA will ensure the exclusively peaceful 

nature of Iran’s nuclear programme.  

iii. Iran reaffirms that under no circumstances will Iran ever seek, develop or 

acquire any nuclear weapons.  

iv. Successful implementation of this JCPOA will enable Iran to ful ly enjoy its 

right to nuclear energy for peaceful purposes under the relevant articles of the 

nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) in line with its obligations therein, and 

the Iranian nuclear programme will be treated in the same manner as that of 

any other non-nuclear-weapon state party to the NPT. 

v. This JCPOA will produce the comprehensive lifting of all UN Security 

Council sanctions as well as multilateral and national sanctions related to 

Iran’s nuclear programme, including steps on access in areas of trade, 

technology, finance and energy.  

vi. The E3/EU+3 and Iran reaffirm their commitment to the purposes and 

principles of the United Nations as set out in the UN Charter.  

vii. The E3/EU+3 and Iran acknowledge that the NPT remains the cornerstone of  

the nuclear non-proliferation regime and the essential foundation for the 

pursuit of nuclear disarmament and for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.  

viii. The E3/EU+3 and Iran commit to implement this JCPOA in good faith and in a 

constructive atmosphere, based on mutual respect, and to refrain from any 

action inconsistent with the letter, spirit and intent of this JCPOA that would 

undermine its successful implementation. The E3/EU+3 will refrain from 

imposing discriminatory regulatory and procedural requirements in lieu of the 

sanctions and restrictive measures covered by this JCPOA. This JCPOA builds 

on the implementation of the Joint Plan of Action (JPOA) agreed in Geneva on 

24 November 2013.  

ix. A Joint Commission consisting of the E3/EU+3 and Iran will be established to 

monitor the implementation of this JCPOA and will carry out the functions 

provided for in this JCPOA. This Joint Commission will address issues arising 

from the implementation of this JCPOA and will operate in accordance with 

the provisions as detailed in the relevant annex.  

x. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will be requested to monitor 

and verify the voluntary nuclear-related measures as detailed in this JCPOA. 

The IAEA will be requested to provide regular updates to the Board of 

Governors, and as provided for in this JCPOA, to the UN Security Council. All 

relevant rules and regulations of the IAEA with regard to the protection of 

information will be fully observed by all parties involved.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 10/104 

 

xi. All provisions and measures contained in this JCPOA are only for the purpose 

of its implementation between E3/EU+3 and Iran and should not be considered 

as setting precedents for any other state or for fundamental principles o f 

international law and the rights and obligations under the NPT and other 

relevant instruments, as well as for internationally recognised principles and 

practices.  

xii. Technical details of the implementation of this JCPOA are dealt with in the 

annexes to this document.  

xiii. The EU and E3+3 countries and Iran, in the framework of the JCPOA, will 

cooperate, as appropriate, in the field of peaceful uses of nuclear energy and 

engage in mutually determined civil nuclear cooperation projects as detailed in 

Annex III, including through IAEA involvement.  

xiv. The E3+3 will submit a draft resolution to the UN Security Council endorsing 

this JCPOA affirming that conclusion of this JCPOA marks a fundamental 

shift in its consideration of this issue and expressing its desire to build a new 

relationship with Iran. This UN Security Council resolution will also provide 

for the termination on Implementation Day of provisions imposed under 

previous resolutions; establishment of specific restrictions; and conclusion of 

consideration of the Iran nuclear issue by the UN Security Council 10 years 

after the Adoption Day. 

xv. The provisions stipulated in this JCPOA will be implemented for their 

respective durations as set forth below and detailed in the annexes.  

xvi. The E3/EU+3 and Iran will meet at the ministerial level every 2 years, or 

earlier if needed, in order to review and assess progress and to adopt 

appropriate decisions by consensus.  

 

  



 
S/2015/547 

 

11/104 15-12242 

 

  Iran and E3/EU+3 will take the following voluntary measures within 

the timeframe as detailed in this JCPOA and its Annexes  
 

 

  NUCLEAR 
 

 

 A. ENRICHMENT, ENRICHMENT R&D, STOCKPILES  
 

 

1. Iran’s long term plan includes certain agreed limitations on all uranium 

enrichment and uranium enrichment-related activities including certain 

limitations on specific research and development (R&D) activities for the first 

8 years, to be followed by gradual evolution, at a reasonable pace, to the next 

stage of its enrichment activities for exclusively peaceful purposes, as 

described in Annex I. Iran will abide by its voluntary commitments, as 

expressed in its own long-term enrichment and enrichment R&D plan to be 

submitted as part of the initial declaration for the Additional Protocol to Iran’s 

Safeguards Agreement. 

2. Iran will begin phasing out its IR-1 centrifuges in 10 years. During this period, 

Iran will keep its enrichment capacity at Natanz at up to a total installed 

uranium enrichment capacity of 5060 IR-1 centrifuges. Excess centrifuges and 

enrichment-related infrastructure at Natanz will be stored under IAEA 

continuous monitoring, as specified in Annex I.  

3. Iran will continue to conduct enrichment R&D in a manner that does not 

accumulate enriched uranium. Iran’s enrichment R&D with uranium for  

10 years will only include IR-4, IR-5, IR-6 and IR-8 centrifuges as laid out in 

Annex I, and Iran will not engage in other isotope separation technologies for 

enrichment of uranium as specified in Annex I. Iran will continue testing IR -6 

and IR-8 centrifuges, and will commence testing of up to 30 IR-6 and IR-8 

centrifuges after eight and a half years, as detailed in Annex I.  

4. As Iran will be phasing out its IR-1 centrifuges, it will not manufacture or 

assemble other centrifuges, except as provided for in Annex I, and will replace 

failed centrifuges with centrifuges of the same type. Iran will manufacture 

advanced centrifuge machines only for the purposes specified in this JCPOA. 

From the end of the eighth year, and as described in Annex I, Iran will start  to 

manufacture agreed numbers of IR-6 and IR-8 centrifuge machines without 

rotors and will store all of the manufactured machines at Natanz, under IAEA 

continuous monitoring until they are needed under Iran’s long -term 

enrichment and enrichment R&D plan.  

5. Based on its own long-term plan, for 15 years, Iran will carry out its uranium 

enrichment-related activities, including safeguarded R&D exclusively in the 

Natanz Enrichment facility, keep its level of uranium enrichment at up to 

3.67%, and, at Fordow, refrain from any uranium enrichment and uranium 

enrichment R&D and from keeping any nuclear material.  

6. Iran will convert the Fordow facility into a nuclear, physics and technology 

centre. International collaboration including in the form of scientific j oint 

partnerships will be established in agreed areas of research. 1044 IR -1 

centrifuges in six cascades will remain in one wing at Fordow. Two of these 

cascades will spin without uranium and will be transitioned, including through 

appropriate infrastructure modification, for stable isotope production. The 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 12/104 

 

other four cascades with all associated infrastructure will remain idle. All 

other centrifuges and enrichment-related infrastructure will be removed and 

stored under IAEA continuous monitoring as specified in Annex I.  

7. During the 15 year period, and as Iran gradually moves to meet international 

qualification standards for nuclear fuel produced in Iran, it will keep its 

uranium stockpile under 300 kg of up to 3.67% enriched uranium hexafluoride 

(UF6) or the equivalent in other chemical forms. The excess quantities are to 

be sold based on international prices and delivered to the international buyer in 

return for natural uranium delivered to Iran, or are to be down -blended to 

natural uranium level. Enriched uranium in fabricated fuel assemblies from 

Russia or other sources for use in Iran’s nuclear reactors will not be counted 

against the above stated 300 kg UF6 stockpile, if the criteria set out in Annex I 

are met with regard to other sources. The Joint Commission will support 

assistance to Iran, including through IAEA technical cooperation as 

appropriate, in meeting international qualification standards for nuclear fuel 

produced in Iran. All remaining uranium oxide enriched to between 5% and 

20% will be fabricated into fuel for the Tehran Research Reactor (TRR). Any 

additional fuel needed for the TRR will be made available to Iran at 

international market prices. 

 

 B. ARAK, HEAVY WATER, REPROCESSING 
 

8. Iran will redesign and rebuild a modernised heavy water research reactor in 

Arak, based on an agreed conceptual design, using fuel enriched up to 3.67 %, 

in a form of an international partnership which will certify the final design. 

The reactor will support peaceful nuclear research and radioisotope production  

for medical and industrial purposes. The redesigned and rebuilt Arak reactor 

will not produce weapons grade plutonium. Except for the first core load, all 

of the activities for redesigning and manufacturing of the fuel assemblies for 

the redesigned reactor will be carried out in Iran. All spent fuel from Arak will 

be shipped out of Iran for the lifetime of the reactor. This international 

partnership will include participating E3/EU+3 parties, Iran and such other 

countries as may be mutually determined. Iran will take the leadership role as 

the owner and as the project manager and the E3/EU+3 and Iran will, before 

Implementation Day, conclude an official document which would define the 

responsibilities assumed by the E3/EU+3 participants.  

9. Iran plans to keep pace with the trend of international technological 

advancement in relying on light water for its future power and research 

reactors with enhanced international cooperation, including assurance of 

supply of necessary fuel.  

10. There will be no additional heavy water reactors or accumulation of heavy 

water in Iran for 15 years. All excess heavy water will be made available for 

export to the international market.  

11. Iran intends to ship out all spent fuel for all future and present power and 

research nuclear reactors, for further treatment or disposition as provided for 

in relevant contracts to be duly concluded with the recipient party.  

12. For 15 years Iran will not, and does not intend to thereafter, engage in any 

spent fuel reprocessing or construction of a facility capable of spent fuel 



 
S/2015/547 

 

13/104 15-12242 

 

reprocessing, or reprocessing R&D activities leading to a spent fuel 

reprocessing capability, with the sole exception of separation activities aimed 

exclusively at the production of medical and industrial radio -isotopes from 

irradiated enriched uranium targets.  

 

 C. TRANSPARENCY AND CONFIDENCE BUILDING MEASURES 
 

13. Consistent with the respective roles of the President and Majlis (Parliament), 

Iran will provisionally apply the Additional Protocol to its Comprehensive 

Safeguards Agreement in accordance with Article 17(b) of the Additional 

Protocol, proceed with its ratification within the timeframe as detailed in 

Annex V and fully implement the modified Code 3.1 of the Subsidiary 

Arrangements to its Safeguards Agreement.   

14. Iran will fully implement the “Roadmap for Clarification of Past and Present 

Outstanding Issues” agreed with the IAEA, containing arrangements to 

address past and present issues of concern relating to its nuclear programme as 

raised in the annex to the IAEA report of 8 November 2011 (GOV/2011/65). 

Full implementation of activities undertaken under the Roadmap by Iran will 

be completed by 15 October 2015, and subsequently the Director General will 

provide by 15 December 2015 the final assessment on the resolution of all past 

and present outstanding issues to the Board of Governors, and the E3+3, in 

their capacity as members of the Board of Governors, will submit a resolution 

to the Board of Governors for taking necessary action, with a view to closing 

the issue, without prejudice to the competence of the Board of Governors.  

15. Iran will allow the IAEA to monitor the implementation of the voluntary 

measures for their respective durations, as well as to implement transparency 

measures, as set out in this JCPOA and its Annexes. These measures include: a 

long-term IAEA presence in Iran; IAEA monitoring of uranium ore 

concentrate produced by Iran from all uranium ore concentrate plants for  

25 years; containment and surveillance of centrifuge rotors and bello ws for  

20 years; use of IAEA approved and certified modern technologies including 

on-line enrichment measurement and electronic seals; and a reliable 

mechanism to ensure speedy resolution of IAEA access concerns for 15 years, 

as defined in Annex I.  

16. Iran will not engage in activities, including at the R&D level, that could 

contribute to the development of a nuclear explosive device, including 

uranium or plutonium metallurgy activities, as specified in Annex I.  

17. Iran will cooperate and act in accordance with the procurement channel in this 

JCPOA, as detailed in Annex IV, endorsed by the UN Security Council 

resolution. 

 

  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 14/104 

 

  SANCTIONS 
 

18. The UN Security Council resolution endorsing this JCPOA will terminate all 

provisions of previous UN Security Council resolutions on the Iranian nuclear 

issue - 1696 (2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), 

1929 (2010) and 2224 (2015) – simultaneously with the IAEA-verified 

implementation of agreed nuclear-related measures by Iran and will establish 

specific restrictions, as specified in Annex V.1  

19. The EU will terminate all provisions of the EU Regulation, as subsequently 

amended, implementing all nuclear-related economic and financial sanctions, 

including related designations, simultaneously with the IAEA-verified 

implementation of agreed nuclear-related measures by Iran as specified in 

Annex V, which cover all sanctions and restrictive measures in the following 

areas, as described in Annex II: 

 i. Transfers of funds between EU persons and entities, including financial 

institutions, and Iranian persons and entities, including financial 

institutions; 

 ii. Banking activities, including the establishment of new correspondent 

banking relationships and the opening of new branches and subsidiaries 

of Iranian banks in the territories of EU Member States;  

 iii. Provision of insurance and reinsurance;  

 iv. Supply of specialised financial messaging services, including SWIFT, for 

persons and entities set out in Attachment 1 to Annex II, including the 

Central Bank of Iran and Iranian financial institutions;  

 v. Financial support for trade with Iran (export credit, guarantees or 

insurance); 

 vi. Commitments for grants, financial assistance and concessional loans to 

the Government of Iran; 

 vii. Transactions in public or public-guaranteed bonds; 

 viii. Import and transport of Iranian oil, petroleum products, gas and 

petrochemical products; 

 ix. Export of key equipment or technology for the oil, gas and petrochemical 

sectors; 

 x. Investment in the oil, gas and petrochemical sectors;  

 xi. Export of key naval equipment and technology;  

 xii. Design and construction of cargo vessels and oil tankers;  

 xiii. Provision of flagging and classification services;  

 xiv. Access to EU airports of Iranian cargo flights;  

 xv. Export of gold, precious metals and diamonds;  

 xvi. Delivery of Iranian banknotes and coinage;  

__________________ 

 1  The provisions of this Resolution do not constitute provisions of this JCPOA.  



 
S/2015/547 

 

15/104 15-12242 

 

 xvii. Export of graphite, raw or semi-finished metals such as aluminum and 

steel, and export or software for integrating industrial processes;  

 xviii. Designation of persons, entities and bodies (asset freeze and visa ban) set 

out in Attachment 1 to Annex II; and  

 xix. Associated services for each of the categories above.  

20. The EU will terminate all provisions of the EU Regulation implementing all 

EU proliferation-related sanctions, including related designations, 8 years after 

Adoption Day or when the IAEA has reached the Broader Conclusion that all 

nuclear material in Iran remains in peaceful activities, whichever is earlier.  

21. The United States will cease the application, and will continue to do so, in 

accordance with this JCPOA of the sanctions specified in Annex II to take 

effect simultaneously with the IAEA-verified implementation of the agreed 

nuclear-related measures by Iran as specified in Annex V. Such sanctions 

cover the following areas as described in Annex II:  

 i. Financial and banking transactions with Iranian banks and financial 

institutions as specified in Annex II, including the Central Bank of Iran 

and specified individuals and entities identified as Government of Iran by 

the Office of Foreign Assets Control on the Specially Designated Nationals 

and Blocked Persons List (SDN List), as set out in Attachment 3 to  

Annex II (including the opening and maintenance of correspondent and 

payable through-accounts at non-U.S. financial institutions, investments, 

foreign exchange transactions and letters of credit);  

 ii. Transactions in Iranian Rial;  

 iii. Provision of U.S. banknotes to the Government of Iran;  

 iv. Bilateral trade limitations on Iranian revenues abroad, including 

limitations on their transfer; 

 v. Purchase, subscription to, or facilitation of the issuance of Iranian 

sovereign debt, including governmental bonds;  

 vi. Financial messaging services to the Central Bank of Iran and Iranian 

financial institutions set out in Attachment 3 to Annex II;  

 vii. Underwriting services, insurance, or reinsurance;  

 viii. Efforts to reduce Iran’s crude oil sales;  

 ix. Investment, including participation in joint ventures, goods, services, 

information, technology and technical expertise and support for Iran’s 

oil, gas and petrochemical sectors; 

 x. Purchase, acquisition, sale, transportation or marketing of petroleum, 

petrochemical products and natural gas from Iran;  

 xi. Export, sale or provision of refined petroleum products and 

petrochemical products to Iran; 

 xii. Transactions with Iran’s energy sector;  

 xiii. Transactions with Iran’s shipping and shipbuilding sectors and port 

operators; 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 16/104 

 

 xiv. Trade in gold and other precious metals;  

 xv. Trade with Iran in graphite, raw or semi-finished metals such as 

aluminum and steel, coal, and software for integrating industrial 

processes; 

 xvi. Sale, supply or transfer of goods and services used in connection with 

Iran’s automotive sector; 

 xvii. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above;  

 xviii. Remove individuals and entities set out in Attachment 3 to Annex II from 

the SDN List, the Foreign Sanctions Evaders List, and/or the Non -SDN 

Iran Sanctions Act List; and 

 xix. Terminate Executive Orders 13574, 13590, 13622, and 13645, and 

Sections 5 – 7 and 15 of Executive Order 13628.  

22. The United States will, as specified in Annex II and in accordance with Annex V, 

allow for the sale of commercial passenger aircraft and related parts and se rvices 

to Iran; license non-U.S. persons that are owned or controlled by a U.S. person 

to engage in activities with Iran consistent with this JCPOA; and license the 

importation into the United States of Iranian-origin carpets and foodstuffs.  

23. Eight years after Adoption Day or when the IAEA has reached the Broader 

Conclusion that all nuclear material in Iran remains in peaceful activities, 

whichever is earlier, the United States will seek such legislative action as may 

be appropriate to terminate, or modify to effectuate the termination of, the 

sanctions specified in Annex II on the acquisition of nuclear -related 

commodities and services for nuclear activities contemplated in this JCPOA, 

to be consistent with the U.S. approach to other non -nuclear-weapon states 

under the NPT.  

24. The E3/EU and the United States specify in Annex II a full and complete list 

of all nuclear-related sanctions or restrictive measures and will lift them in 

accordance with Annex V. Annex II also specifies the effects of the lifti ng of 

sanctions beginning on “Implementation Day”. If at any time following the 

Implementation Day, Iran believes that any other nuclear -related sanction or 

restrictive measure of the E3/EU+3 is preventing the full implementation of 

the sanctions lifting as specified in this JCPOA, the JCPOA participant in 

question will consult with Iran with a view to resolving the issue and, if they 

concur that lifting of this sanction or restrictive measure is appropriate, the 

JCPOA participant in question will take appropriate action. If they are not able 

to resolve the issue, Iran or any member of the E3/EU+3 may refer the issue to 

the Joint Commission. 

25. If a law at the state or local level in the United States is preventing the 

implementation of the sanctions lifting as specified in this JCPOA, the United 

States will take appropriate steps, taking into account all available authorities, 

with a view to achieving such implementation. The United States will actively 

encourage officials at the state or local level to take into account the changes 

in the U.S. policy reflected in the lifting of sanctions under this JCPOA and to 

refrain from actions inconsistent with this change in policy.  



 
S/2015/547 

 

17/104 15-12242 

 

26. The EU will refrain from re-introducing or re-imposing the sanctions that it 

has terminated implementing under this JCPOA, without prejudice to the 

dispute resolution process provided for under this JCPOA. There will be no 

new nuclear-related UN Security Council sanctions and no new EU nuclear -

related sanctions or restrictive measures. The United States will make best 

efforts in good faith to sustain this JCPOA and to prevent interference with the 

realisation of the full benefit by Iran of the sanctions lifting specified in 

Annex II. The U.S. Administration, acting consistent with the respective roles 

of the President and the Congress, will refrain from re -introducing or  

re-imposing the sanctions specified in Annex II that it has ceased applying 

under this JCPOA, without prejudice to the dispute resolution process 

provided for under this JCPOA. The U.S. Administration, acting consistent 

with the respective roles of the President and the Congress, will refrain from 

imposing new nuclear-related sanctions. Iran has stated that it will treat such a 

re-introduction or re-imposition of the sanctions specified in Annex II, or such 

an imposition of new nuclear-related sanctions, as grounds to cease 

performing its commitments under this JCPOA in whole or in part.  

27. The E3/EU+3 will take adequate administrative and regulatory measures to 

ensure clarity and effectiveness with respect to the lifting of sanctions under 

this JCPOA. The EU and its Member States as well as the United States will 

issue relevant guidelines and make publicly accessible statements on the 

details of sanctions or restrictive measures which have been lifted under this 

JCPOA. The EU and its Member States and the United States commit to 

consult with Iran regarding the content of such guidelines and statements, on a 

regular basis and whenever appropriate.  

28. The E3/EU+3 and Iran commit to implement this JCPOA in good faith and in a 

constructive atmosphere, based on mutual respect, and to refrain from any 

action inconsistent with the letter, spirit and intent of this JCPOA that would 

undermine its successful implementation. Senior Government officials of the 

E3/EU+3 and Iran will make every effort to support the successful 

implementation of this JCPOA including in their public statements. 2 The 

E3/EU+3 will take all measures required to lift sanctions and will refrain from 

imposing exceptional or discriminatory regulatory and procedural 

requirements in lieu of the sanctions and restrictive measures covered by the 

JCPOA.  

29. The EU and its Member States and the United States, consistent with their 

respective laws, will refrain from any policy specifically intended to directly 

and adversely affect the normalisation of trade and economic relations with 

Iran inconsistent with their commitments not to undermine the successful 

implementation of this JCPOA. 

30. The E3/EU+3 will not apply sanctions or restrictive measures to persons or 

entities for engaging in activities covered by the lifting of sanctions provided 

for in this JCPOA, provided that such activities are otherwise consistent with 

E3/EU+3 laws and regulations in effect. Following the lifting of sanctions 

under this JCPOA as specified in Annex II, ongoing investigations on possible 

__________________ 

 2  ‘Government officials’ for the U.S. means senior officials of the U.S. Administration.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 18/104 

 

infringements of such sanctions may be reviewed in accordance with 

applicable national laws.  

31. Consistent with the timing specified in Annex V, the EU and its Member States 

will terminate the implementation of the measures applicable to designated 

entities and individuals, including the Central Bank of Iran and other Iranian 

banks and financial institutions, as detailed in Annex II and the attachments 

thereto. Consistent with the timing specified in Annex V, the United States will 

remove designation of certain entities and individuals on the Specially 

Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List, and entities and individuals 

listed on the Foreign Sanctions Evaders List, as detailed in Annex II and the 

attachments thereto.  

32. EU and E3+3 countries and international participants will engage in joint 

projects with Iran, including through IAEA technical cooperation projects, in 

the field of peaceful nuclear technology, including nuclear power plants, 

research reactors, fuel fabrication, agreed joint advanced R&D such as fusion, 

establishment of a state-of-the-art regional nuclear medical centre, personnel 

training, nuclear safety and security, and environmental protection, as detailed 

in Annex III. They will take necessary measures, as appropriate, for the 

implementation of these projects.  

33. The E3/EU+3 and Iran will agree on steps to ensure Iran’s access in areas of 

trade, technology, finance and energy. The EU will further explore possible 

areas for cooperation between the EU, its Member States and Iran, and in this 

context consider the use of available instruments such as export credits to 

facilitate trade, project financing and investment in Iran.  

 

  



 
S/2015/547 

 

19/104 15-12242 

 

  IMPLEMENTATION PLAN 
 

34. Iran and the E3/EU+3 will implement their JCPOA commitments according to 

the sequence specified in Annex V. The milestones for implementation are as 

follows: 

 i. Finalisation Day is the date on which negotiations of this JCPOA are 

concluded among the E3/EU+3 and Iran, to be followed promptly by 

submission of the resolution endorsing this JCPOA to the UN Security 

Council for adoption without delay.  

 ii. Adoption Day is the date 90 days after the endorsement of this JCPOA 

by the UN Security Council, or such earlier date as may be determined 

by mutual consent of the JCPOA participants, at which time this JCPOA 

and the commitments in this JCPOA come into effect. Beginning on that 

date, JCPOA participants will make necessary arrangements and 

preparations for the implementation of their JCPOA commitments.  

 iii. Implementation Day is the date on which, simultaneously with the IAEA 

report verifying implementation by Iran of the nuclear -related measures 

described in Sections 15.1. to 15.11 of Annex V, the EU and the United 

States take the actions described in Sections 16 and 17 of Annex V 

respectively and in accordance with the UN Security Council resolution, 

the actions described in Section 18 of Annex V occur at the UN level.  

 iv. Transition Day is the date 8 years after Adoption Day or the date on 

which the Director General of the IAEA submits a report stating that the 

IAEA has reached the Broader Conclusion that all nuclear material in 

Iran remains in peaceful activities, whichever is earlier. On that date, the 

EU and the United States will take the actions described in Sections 20 

and 21 of Annex V respectively and Iran will seek, consistent with the 

Constitutional roles of the President and Parliament, ratification of the 

Additional Protocol. 

 v. UN Security Council resolution Termination Day is the date on which the 

UN Security Council resolution endorsing this JCPOA terminates 

according to its terms, which is to be 10 years from Adoption Day, 

provided that the provisions of previous resolutions have not been 

reinstated. On that date, the EU will take the actions described in  

Section 25 of Annex V.  

35. The sequence and milestones set forth above and in Annex V are without 

prejudice to the duration of JCPOA commitments stated in this JCPOA. 

 

  DISPUTE RESOLUTION MECHANISM 
 

36. If Iran believed that any or all of the E3/EU+3 were not meeting their 

commitments under this JCPOA, Iran could refer the issue to the Joint 

Commission for resolution; similarly, if any of the E3/EU+3 believed that Iran 

was not meeting its commitments under this JCPOA, any of the E3/EU+3 

could do the same. The Joint Commission would have 15 days to resolve the 

issue, unless the time period was extended by consensus. After Joint 

Commission consideration, any participant could refer the issue to Ministers of 

Foreign Affairs, if it believed the compliance issue had not been resolved. 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 20/104 

 

Ministers would have 15 days to resolve the issue, unless the time period was 

extended by consensus. After Joint Commission consideration – in parallel 

with (or in lieu of) review at the Ministerial level - either the complaining 

participant or the participant whose performance is in question could request 

that the issue be considered by an Advisory Board, which would consist of 

three members (one each appointed by the participants in the dispute and a 

third independent member). The Advisory Board should provide a non -binding 

opinion on the compliance issue within 15 days. If, after this 30 -day process 

the issue is not resolved, the Joint Commission would consider the opinion of 

the Advisory Board for no more than 5 days in order to resolve the issue. If the 

issue still has not been resolved to the satisfaction of the complaining 

participant, and if the complaining participant deems the issue to constitute 

significant non-performance, then that participant could treat the unresolved 

issue as grounds to cease performing its commitments under this JCPOA in 

whole or in part and/or notify the UN Security Council that it believes the 

issue constitutes significant non-performance. 

37. Upon receipt of the notification from the complaining participant, as described 

above, including a description of the good-faith efforts the participant made to 

exhaust the dispute resolution process specified in this JCPOA, the UN 

Security Council, in accordance with its procedures, shall vote on a resolution 

to continue the sanctions lifting. If the resolution described above has not been 

adopted within 30 days of the notification, then the provisions of the old UN 

Security Council resolutions would be re-imposed, unless the UN Security 

Council decides otherwise. In such event, these provisions would not apply 

with retroactive effect to contracts signed between any party and Iran or 

Iranian individuals and entities prior to the date of application, provided that  

the activities contemplated under and execution of such contracts are 

consistent with this JCPOA and the previous and current UN Security Council 

resolutions. The UN Security Council, expressing its intention to prevent the 

reapplication of the provisions if the issue giving rise to the notification is 

resolved within this period, intends to take into account the views of the States 

involved in the issue and any opinion on the issue of the Advisory Board. Iran 

has stated that if sanctions are reinstated in whole or in part, Iran will treat that 

as grounds to cease performing its commitments under this JCPOA in whole or 

in part. 

 



 
S/2015/547 

 

21/104 15-12242 

 

  JCPOA Annex I – Nuclear-related measures  
 

 

 A. GENERAL  
 

1. The sequence of implementation of the commitments detailed in this Annex is 

specified in Annex V to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). 

Unless otherwise specified, the durations of the commitments in this Annex 

are from Implementation Day. 

 

 B. ARAK HEAVY WATER RESEARCH REACTOR 
 

2. Iran will modernise the Arak heavy water research reactor to support peaceful 

nuclear research and radioisotopes production for medical and industrial 

purposes. Iran will redesign and rebuild the reactor, based on the agreed 

conceptual design (as attached to this Annex) to support its peaceful nuclear 

research and production needs and purposes, including testing of fuel pins and 

assembly prototypes and structural materials. The design will be such as to 

minimise the production of plutonium and not to produce weapon-grade 

plutonium in normal operation. The power of the redesigned reactor will not 

exceed 20 MWth. The E3/EU+3 and Iran share the understanding that the 

parameters in the conceptual design are subject to possible and necessary 

adjustments in developing the final design while fully preserving the above -

mentioned purposes and principles of modernisation.  

3. Iran will not pursue construction at the existing unfinished reactor based on its 

original design and will remove the existing calandria and retain i t in Iran. The 

calandria will be made inoperable by filling any openings in the calandria with 

concrete such that the IAEA can verify that it will not be usable for a future 

nuclear application. In redesigning and reconstructing of the modernized Arak 

heavy water research reactor, Iran will maximise the use of existing 

infrastructure already installed at the current Arak research reactor.  

4. Iran will take the leadership role as the owner and as the project manager, and 

have responsibility for overall implementation of the Arak modernisation 

project, with E3/EU+3 participants assuming responsibilities regarding the 

modernisation of the Arak reactor as described in this Annex. A Working 

Group composed of E3/EU+3 participants will be established to facilitate the 

redesigning and rebuilding of the reactor. An international partnership 

composed of Iran and the Working Group would implement the Arak 

modernisation project. The Working Group could be enlarged to include other 

countries by consensus of the participants of the Working Group and Iran. 

E3/EU+3 participants and Iran will conclude an official document expressing 

their strong commitments to the Arak modernisation project in advance of 

Implementation Day which would provide an assured path forward to 

modernise the reactor and would define the responsibilities assumed by the 

E3/EU+3 participants, and subsequently contracts would be concluded. The 

participants of the Working Group will provide assistance needed by Iran for 

redesigning and rebuilding the reactor, consistent with their respective national 

laws, in such a manner as to enable the safe and timely construction and 

commissioning of the modernised reactor.  

5. Iran and the Working Group will cooperate to develop the final design of the 

modernised reactor and the design of the subsidiary laboratories to be carried 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 22/104 

 

out by Iran, and review conformity with international safety standards, such 

that the reactor can be licensed by the relevant Iranian regulatory authority for 

commissioning and operation. The final design of the modernised reactor and 

the design of the subsidiary laboratories will be submitted to the Joint 

Commission. The Joint Commission will aim to complete its review and 

endorsement within three months after the submission of the final design.  If 

the Joint Commission does not complete its review and endorsement within 

three months, Iran could raise the issue through the dispute resolution 

mechanism envisaged by this JCPOA.  

6. The IAEA will monitor the construction and report to the Working Group for 

confirmation that the construction of the modernised reactor is consistent with 

the approved final design.  

7. As the project manager, Iran will take responsibility for the construction 

efforts. E3/EU+3 parties will, consistent with their national laws, take 

appropriate administrative, legal, technical, and regulatory measures to 

support co-operation.  

 E3/EU+3 parties will support the purchase by Iran, the transfer and supply of 

necessary materials, equipment, instrumentation and control systems and 

technologies required for the construction of the redesigned reactor, through 

the mechanism established by this JCPOA, as well as through exploration of 

relevant funding contributions.  

8. E3/EU+3 parties will also support and facilitate the timely and safe  

construction of the modernized Arak reactor and its subsidiary laboratories, 

upon request by Iran, through IAEA technical cooperation if appropriate, 

including but not limited to technical and financial assistance, supply of 

required materials and equipment, state-of-the-art instrumentation and control 

systems and equipment and support for licensing and authorization.  

9. The redesigned reactor will use up to 3.67 percent enriched uranium in the 

form of UO2 with a mass of approximately 350 kg of UO2 in a full core load, 

with a fuel design to be reviewed and approved by the Joint Commission. The 

international partnership with the participation of Iran will fabricate the initial 

fuel core load for the reactor outside Iran. The international partnership will 

cooperate with Iran, including through technical assistance, to fabricate, test 

and license fuel fabrication capabilities in Iran for subsequent fuel core reloads 

for future use with this reactor. Destructive and non-destructive testing of this 

fuel including Post-Irradiation-Examination (PIE) will take place in one of the 

participating countries outside of Iran and that country will work with Iran to 

license the subsequent fuel fabricated in Iran for the use in the redesigned 

reactor under IAEA monitoring. 

10. Iran will not produce or test natural uranium pellets, fuel pins or fuel 

assemblies, which are specifically designed for the support of the originally 

designed Arak reactor, designated by the IAEA as IR -40. Iran will store under 

IAEA continuous monitoring all existing natural uranium pellets and IR -40 

fuel assemblies until the modernised Arak reactor becomes operational, at 

which point these natural uranium pellets and IR-40 fuel assemblies will be 

converted to UNH, or exchanged with an equivalent quantity of natural 

uranium. Iran will make the necessary technical modifications to the natural 



 
S/2015/547 

 

23/104 15-12242 

 

uranium fuel production process line that was intended to supply fuel for the 

IR-40 reactor design, such that it can be used for the fabrication of the fuel 

reloads for the modernised Arak reactor.  

11. All spent fuel from the redesigned Arak reactor, regardless of its origin, for the 

lifetime of the reactor, will be shipped out of Iran to a mutually determined 

location in E3/EU+3 countries or third countries, for further treatment or 

disposition as provided for in relevant contracts to be concluded, consistent 

with national laws, with the recipient party, within one year from the 

unloading from the reactor or whenever deemed to be safe for transfer by the 

recipient country. 

12. Iran will submit the DIQ of the redesigned reactor to the IAEA which will 

include information on the planned radio-isotope production and reactor 

operation programme. The reactor will be operated under IAEA monitoring.  

13. Iran will operate the Fuel Manufacturing Plant only to produce fuel assemblies 

for light water reactors and reloads for the modernized Arak reactor.  

 

 C. HEAVY WATER PRODUCTION PLANT 
 

14. All excess heavy water which is beyond Iran’s needs for the modernised Arak 

research reactor, the Zero power heavy water reactor, quantities needed for 

medical research and production of deuterate solutions and chemical 

compounds including, where appropriate, contingency stocks, will be made 

available for export to the international market based on international prices 

and delivered to the international buyer for 15 years. Iran’s needs, consistent 

with the parameters above, are estimated to be 130 metric tonnes of nuclear 

grade heavy water or its equivalent in different enrichments prior to 

commissioning of the modernised Arak research reactor, and 90 metric tonnes 

after the commissioning, including the amount contained in the reactor.  

15. Iran will inform the IAEA about the inventory and the production of the 

HWPP and will allow the IAEA to monitor the quantities of the heavy water 

stocks and the amount of heavy water produced, including through IAEA 

visits, as requested, to the HWPP.  

 

 D. OTHER REACTORS 
 

16. Consistent with its plan, Iran will keep pace with the trend of international 

technological advancement in relying only on light water for its future nuclear 

power and research reactors with enhanced international cooperation including 

assurances of supply of necessary fuel.  

17. Iran intends to ship out all spent fuel for all future and present nuclear power 

and research reactors, for further treatment or disposition as provided for in 

relevant contracts to be concluded consistent with national laws with the 

recipient party. 

 

 E. SPENT FUEL REPROCESSING ACTIVITIES 
 

18. For 15 years Iran will not, and does not intend to thereafter, engage in any 

spent fuel reprocessing or spent fuel reprocessing R&D activities. For the 

purpose of this annex, spent fuel includes all types of irradiated fuel.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 24/104 

 

19. For 15 years Iran will not, and does not intend to thereafter, reprocess spent 

fuel except for irradiated enriched uranium targets for production of radio -

isotopes for medical and peaceful industrial purposes.  

20. For 15 years Iran will not, and does not intend to thereafter, develop, acquire 

or build facilities capable of separation of plutonium, uranium or neptunium 

from spent fuel or from fertile targets, other than for production of radio -

isotopes for medical and peaceful industrial purposes.  

21. For 15 years, Iran will only develop, acquire, build, or operate hot cells 

(containing a cell or interconnected cells), shielded cells or shielded glove 

boxes with dimensions less than 6 cubic meters in volume compatible with the 

specifications set out in Annex I of the Additional Protocol. These will be  

co-located with the modernised Arak research reactor, the Tehran Research 

Reactor, and radio-medicine production complexes, and only capable of the 

separation and processing of industrial or medical isotopes and non -destructive 

PIE. The needed equipment will be acquired through the procurement 

mechanism established by this JCPOA. For 15 years, Iran will develop, 

acquire, build, or operate hot cells (containing a cell or interconnected cells), 

shielded cells or shielded glove boxes with dimensions beyond 6 cubic meters 

in volume and specifications set out in Annex I of the Additional Protocol, 

only after approval by the Joint Commission.  

22. The E3/EU+3 are ready to facilitate all of the destructive and non -destructive 

examinations on fuel elements and/or fuel assembly prototypes including PIE 

for all fuel fabricated in or outside Iran and irradiated in Iran, using their 

existing facilities outside Iran. Except for the Arak research reactor complex, 

Iran will not develop, build, acquire or operate hot cells capable of performing 

PIE or seek to acquire equipment to build/develop such a capability, for  

15 years. 

23. For 15 years, in addition to continuing current fuel testing activities at the 

TRR, Iran will undertake non-destructive post irradiation examination (PIE) of 

fuel pins, fuel assembly prototypes and structural materials. These 

examinations will be exclusively at the Arak research reactor complex. 

However, the E3/EU+3 will make available their facilities to conduct 

destructive testing with Iranian specialists, as agreed. The hot cells at the Arak 

research reactor in which non-destructive PIE are performed will not be 

physically interconnected to cells that process or handle materials for the 

production of medical or industrial radioisotopes.  

24. For 15 years, Iran will not engage in producing or acquiring plutonium or 

uranium metals or their alloys, or conducting R&D on plutonium or uranium 

(or their alloys) metallurgy, or casting, forming, or machining plutonium or 

uranium metal.  

25. Iran will not produce, seek, or acquire separated plutonium, highly enriched 

uranium (defined as 20% or greater uranium-235), or uranium-233, or 

neptunium-237 (except for use as laboratory standards or in instruments using 

neptunium-237) for 15 years. 

26. If Iran seeks to initiate R&D on uranium metal based TRR fuel in small agreed 

quantities after 10 years and before 15 years, Iran will present its plan to, and 

seek approval by, the Joint Commission.  



 
S/2015/547 

 

25/104 15-12242 

 

 F. ENRICHMENT CAPACITY 
 

27. Iran will keep its enrichment capacity at no more than 5060 IR-1 centrifuge 

machines in no more than 30 cascades in their current configurations in 

currently operating units at the Natanz Fuel Enrichment Plant (FEP) for  

10 years. 

28. Iran will keep its level of uranium enrichment at up to 3.67 percent  for  

15 years. 

29. Iran will remove the following excess centrifuges and infrastructure not 

associated with 5060 IR-1 centrifuges in FEP, which will be stored at Natanz 

in Hall B of FEP under IAEA continuous monitoring:  

29.1. All excess centrifuge machines, including IR-2m centrifuges. Excess IR-1 

centrifuges will be used for the replacement of failed or damaged centrifuges 

of the same type on a one-for-one basis.  

29.2. UF6 pipework including sub headers, valves and pressure transducers at 

cascade level, and frequency inverters, and UF6 withdrawal equipment from 

one of the withdrawal stations, which is currently not in service, including its 

vacuum pumps and chemical traps.  

30. For the purpose of this Annex, the IAEA will confirm through the established 

practice the failed or damaged status of centrifuge machines before removal.  

31. For 15 years, Iran will install gas centrifuge machines, or enrichment -related 

infrastructure, whether suitable for uranium enrichment, research and 

development, or stable isotope enrichment, exclusively at the locations and for 

the activities specified under this JCPOA.  

 

 G. CENTRIFUGES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

32. Iran will continue to conduct enrichment R&D in a manner that does not 

accumulate enriched uranium. For 10 years and consistent with its enrichment 

R&D plan, Iran’s enrichment R&D with uranium will only include IR -4, IR-5, 

IR-6 and IR-8 centrifuges. Mechanical testing on up to two single centrifuges 

for each type will be carried out only on the IR -2m, IR-4, IR-5, IR-6, IR-6s, 

IR-7 and IR-8. Iran will build or test, with or without uranium, only those gas 

centrifuges specified in this JCPOA.  

33. Consistent with its plan, Iran will continue working with the 164-machine  

IR-2m cascade at PFEP in order to complete the necessary tests until  

30 November 2015 or the day of implementation of this JCPOA, whichever 

comes later, and after that it will take these machines out of the PFEP and 

store them under IAEA continuous monitoring at Natanz in Hall B of FEP.  

34. Consistent with its plan, Iran will continue working with the 164 -machine IR-4 

cascade at PFEP in order to complete the necessary tests until 30 November 

2015 or the day of implementation of this JCPOA, whichever comes later, and 

after that it will take these machines out of the PFEP and store them under 

IAEA continuous monitoring at Natanz in Hall B of FEP.  

35. Iran will continue the testing of a single IR-4 centrifuge machine and IR-4 

centrifuge cascade of up to 10 centrifuge machines for 10 years.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 26/104 

 

36. Iran will test a single IR-5 centrifuge machine for 10 years.  

37. Iran will continue testing of the IR-6 on single centrifuge machines and its 

intermediate cascades and will commence testing of up to 30 centrifuge 

machines from one and a half years before the end of year 10. Iran will 

proceed from single centrifuge machines and small cascades to intermediate 

cascades in a logical sequence.  

38. Iran will commence, upon start of implementation of the JCPOA, testing of the 

IR-8 on single centrifuge machines and its intermediate cascades and will 

commence the testing of up to 30 centrifuges machines from one and a half 

years before the end of year 10. Iran will proceed from single centrifuges to 

small cascades to intermediate cascades in a logical sequence.  

39. For 10 years, Iran, consistent with the established practice, will recombine the 

enriched and depleted streams from the IR-6 and IR-8 cascades through the 

use of welded pipework on withdrawal main headers in a manner that 

precludes the withdrawal of enriched and depleted uranium materials and 

verified by the IAEA.  

40. For 15 years, Iran will conduct all testing of centrifuges with uranium only at 

the PFEP. Iran will conduct all mechanical testing of centrifuges only at the 

PFEP and the Tehran Research Centre.  

41. For the purpose of adapting PFEP to the R&D activities in the enrichment and 

enrichment R&D plan, Iran will remove all centrifuges except those needed for 

testing as described in the relevant paragraphs above, except for the IR -1 

cascade (No. 1) as described below. For the full IR-1 cascade (No. 6), Iran will 

modify associated infrastructure by removing UF6 pipework, including  

sub-headers, valves and pressure transducers at cascade level, and frequency 

inverters. The IR-1 cascade (No. 1) centrifuges will be kept but made 

inoperable, as verified by the IAEA, through the removal of centrifuge  rotors 

and the injection of epoxy resin into the sub headers, feeding, product, and 

tails pipework, and the removal of controls and electrical systems for vacuum, 

power and cooling. Excess centrifuges and infrastructure will be stored at 

Natanz in Hall B of FEP under IAEA continuous monitoring. The R&D space 

in line No. 6 will be left empty until Iran needs to use it for its R&D 

programme. 

42. Consistent with the activities in the enrichment and enrichment R&D plan, 

Iran will maintain the cascade infrastructure for testing of single centrifuges 

and small and intermediate cascades in two R&D lines (No. 2 and No. 3) and 

will adapt two other lines (No. 4 and No. 5) with infrastructure similar to that 

for lines No. 2 and No. 3 in order to enable future R&D activities as specified 

in this JCPoA. Adaptation will include modification of all UF6 pipework 

(including removal of all sub headers except as agreed as needed for the R&D 

programme) and associated instrumentation to be compatible with single 

centrifuges and small and intermediate cascade testing instead of full scale 

testing.  

43. Consistent with its plan and internationally established practices, Iran intends 

to continue R&D on new types of centrifuges through computer modelling and 

simulations, including at universities. For any such project to proceed to a 



 
S/2015/547 

 

27/104 15-12242 

 

prototype stage for mechanical testing within 10 years, a full presentation to, 

and approval by, the Joint Commission is needed.  

 

 H. FORDOW FUEL ENRICHMENT PLANT  
 

44. The Fordow Fuel Enrichment Plant (FFEP) will be converted into a nuclear, 

physics, and technology centre and international collaboration will be 

encouraged in agreed areas of research. The Joint Commission will be 

informed in advance of the specific projects that will be undertaken at Fordow.  

45. Iran will not conduct any uranium enrichment or any uranium enrichment 

related R&D and will have no nuclear material at the Fordow Fuel Enrichment 

Plant (FFEP) for 15 years. 

46. For 15 years, Iran will maintain no more than 1044 IR -1 centrifuge machines 

at one wing of the FFEP of which: 

 46.1. Two cascades that have not experienced UF6 before will be modified for 

the production of stable isotopes. The transition to stable isotope 

production of these cascades at FFEP will be conducted in joint 

partnership between the Russian Federation and Iran on the basis of 

arrangements to be mutually agreed upon. To prepare these two cascades 

for installation of a new cascade architecture appropriate for stable 

isotope production by the joint partnership, Iran will remove the 

connection to the UF6 feed main header, and move cascade UF6 

pipework (except for the dump line in order to maintain vacuum) to 

storage in Fordow under IAEA continuous monitoring. The Joint 

Commission will be informed about the conceptual framework of stable 

isotope production at FFEP. 

 46.2. For four cascades with all associated infrastructure remaining except for 

pipework that enables crossover tandem connections, two will be placed 

in an idle state, not spinning. The other two cascades will continue to 

spin until the transition to stable isotope production described in the 

previous subparagraph has been completed. Upon completion of the 

transition to stable isotope production described in the previous 

subparagraph, these two spinning cascades will be placed in an idle state, 

not spinning.  

47. Iran will:  

 47.1. remove the other 2 cascades of IR-1 centrifuges from this wing, by 

removing all centrifuges and cascade UF6 pipework, including  

sub-headers, valves and pressure transducers at cascade level, and 

frequency inverters.  

 47.2. also subsequently remove cascade electrical cabling, individual cascade 

control cabinets and vacuum pumps. All these excess centr ifuges and 

infrastructure will be stored at Natanz in Hall B of FEP under IAEA 

continuous monitoring.  

48. Iran will: 

 48.1. remove all excess centrifuges and uranium enrichment related 

infrastructure from the other wing of the FFEP. This will include remo val 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 28/104 

 

of all centrifuges and UF6 pipework, including sub headers, valves and 

pressure gauges and transducers, and frequency inverters and converters, 

and UF6 feed and withdrawal stations.  

 48.2. also subsequently remove cascade electrical cabling, individual cascade 

control cabinets, vacuum pumps and centrifuge mounting blocks. All 

these excess centrifuges and infrastructure will be stored at Natanz in 

Hall B of FEP under IAEA continuous monitoring.  

49. Centrifuges from the four idle cascades may be used for the replacement of 

failed or damaged centrifuges in stable isotope production at Fordow.  

50. Iran will limit its stable isotope production activities with gas centrifuges to 

the FFEP for 15 years and will use no more than 348 IR -1 centrifuges for these 

activities at the FFEP. The associated R&D activities in Iran will occur at the 

FFEP and at Iran’s declared and monitored centrifuge manufacturing facilities 

for testing, modification and balancing these IR -1 centrifuges. 

51. The IAEA will establish a baseline for the amount of uranium legacy from past 

enrichment operations that will remain in Fordow. Iran will permit the IAEA 

regular access, including daily as requested by the IAEA, access to the FFEP 

in order to monitor Iran’s production of stable isotopes and the absence of 

undeclared nuclear material and activities at the FFEP for 15 years.  

 

 I. OTHER ASPECTS OF ENRICHMENT 
 

52. Iran will abide by its voluntary commitments as expressed in its own long term 

enrichment and enrichment R&D plan to be submitted as part of the initial 

declaration described in Article 2 of the Additional Protocol. 1 The IAEA will 

confirm on an annual basis, for the duration of the plan that the nature and 

scope and scale of Iran’s enrichment and enrichment R&D activities are in line 

with this plan.  

53. Iran will start to install necessary infrastructure for the IR -8 at Natanz in Hall 

B of FEP after year 10. 

54. An agreed template for describing different centrifuge types (IR -1, IR-2m, IR-4, 

IR-5, IR-6, IR-6s, IR-7, IR-8) and the associated definitions need to be 

accomplished by implementation day. 

55. An agreed procedure for measuring IR-1, IR-2m and IR-4 centrifuge 

performance data needs to be accomplished by implementation day.  

 

 J. URANIUM STOCKS AND FUELS 
 

56. Iran will maintain a total enriched uranium stockpile of no more than 300 kg 

of up to 3.67% enriched uranium hexafluoride (or the equivalent in different 

chemical forms) for 15 years. 

57. All enriched uranium hexafluoride in excess of 300 kg of up to 3.67% 

enriched UF6 (or the equivalent in different chemical forms) will be down 

blended to natural uranium level or be sold on the international market and 

delivered to the international buyer in return for natural uranium delivered to 
__________________ 

 1  Iran will permit the IAEA to share the content of the enrichment and enrichment R&D plan, as 

submitted as part of the initial declaration, with the Joint Commission participants . 



 
S/2015/547 

 

29/104 15-12242 

 

Iran. Iran will enter into a commercial contract with an entity outside Iran for 

the purchase and transfer of its enriched uranium stockpile in excess of 300 kg 

UF6 in return for natural uranium delivered to Iran. The E3/EU+3 will 

facilitate, where applicable, the conclusion and implementation of this 

contract. Iran may choose to seek to sell excess enriched uranium to the IAEA 

fuel bank in Kazakhstan when the fuel bank becomes operational.  

58. All uranium oxide enriched to between 5% and 20% will be fabricated into 

fuel plates for the Tehran Research Reactor or transferred, based on a 

commercial transaction, outside of Iran or diluted to an enrichment level of 

3.67% or less. Scrap oxide and other forms not in plates that cannot be 

fabricated into TRR fuel plates will be transferred, based on a commercial 

transaction, outside of Iran or diluted to an enrichment level of 3.67% or less. 

In case of future supply of 19.75% enriched uranium oxide (U3O8) for TRR 

fuel plates fabrication, all scrap oxide and other forms not in plates that cannot 

be fabricated into TRR fuel plates, containing uranium enriched to between 

5% and 20%, will be transferred, based on a commercial transaction, outside 

of Iran or diluted to an enrichment level of 3.67% or less within 6 months of 

its production. Scrap plates will be transferred, based on a commercial 

transaction, outside Iran. The commercial transactions should be structured to 

return an equivalent amount of natural uranium to Iran. For 15 years, Iran will 

not build or operate facilities for converting fuel plates or scrap back to UF6.  

59. Russian designed, fabricated and licensed fuel assemblies for use in Russian -

supplied reactors in Iran do not count against the 300 kg UF6 stockpile limit. 

Enriched uranium in fabricated fuel assemblies from other sources outside of 

Iran for use in Iran’s nuclear research and power reactors, including those 

which will be fabricated outside of Iran for the initial fuel load of the 

modernised Arak research reactor, which are certified by the fuel supplier and 

the appropriate Iranian authority to meet international standards, will not count 

against the 300 kg UF6 stockpile limit. The Joint Commission will establish a 

Technical Working Group with the goal of enabling fuel to be fabricated in 

Iran while adhering to the agreed stockpile parameters (300 kg of up to 3.67 % 

enriched UF6 or the equivalent in different chemical forms). This Technical 

Working Group will also, within one year, work to develop objective technical 

criteria for assessing whether fabricated fuel and its intermediate products can 

be readily converted to UF6. Enriched uranium in fabricated fuel assemblies 

and its intermediate products manufactured in Iran and certified to meet 

international standards, including those for the modernised Arak research 

reactor, will not count against the 300 kg UF6 stockpile limit provided the 

Technical Working Group of the Joint Commission approves that such fuel 

assemblies and their intermediate products cannot be readily reconverted into 

UF6. This could for instance be achieved through impurities (e.g. burnable 

poisons or otherwise) contained in fuels or through the fuel being in a 

chemical form such that direct conversion back to UF6 would be technically 

difficult without dissolution and purification. The objective technical criteria 

will guide the approval process of the Technical Working Group. The IAEA 

will monitor the fuel fabrication process for any fuel produced in Iran to verify 

that the fuel and intermediate products comport with the fuel fabrication 

process that was approved by the Technical Working Group. The Joint 

Commission will also support assistance to Iran including through IAEA 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 30/104 

 

technical cooperation as appropriate, in meeting international qualification 

standards for nuclear fuel produced by Iran.  

60. Iran will seek to enter into a commercial contract with entities outside Iran for 

the purchase of fuel for the TRR and enriched uranium targets. The E3/EU+3 

will facilitate, as needed, the conclusion and implementation of this contract. 

In the case of lack of conclusion of a contract with a fuel supplier, E3/EU+3 

will supply a quantity of 19.75% enriched uranium oxide (U3O8) and deliver 

to Iran, exclusively for the purpose of fabrication in Iran of fuel for the TRR 

and enriched uranium targets for the lifetime of the reactor. This 19.75% 

enriched uranium oxide (U3O8) will be supplied in increments no greater than 

approximately 5 kg and each new increment will be provided only when the 

previous increment of this material has been verified by the IAEA to have 

been mixed with aluminum to make fuel for the TRR or fabricated into 

enriched uranium targets. Iran will notify the E3/EU+3 within 2 year before 

the contingency of TRR fuel will be exhausted in order to have the uranium 

oxide available 6 months before the end of the 2 year period.  

 

 K. CENTRIFUGE MANUFACTURING 
 

61. Consistent with its enrichment and enrichment R&D plan, Iran will only 

engage in production of centrifuges, including centrifuge rotors suitable for 

isotope separation or any other centrifuge components, to meet the enric hment 

and enrichment R&D requirements of this Annex.  

62. Consistent with its plan, Iran will use the stock of IR -1 centrifuge machines in 

storage, which are in excess of the remaining 5060 IR -1 centrifuges in Natanz 

and the IR-1 centrifuges installed at Fordow, for the replacement of failed or 

damaged machines. Whenever during the 10 year period from the start of the 

implementation of the JCPOA, the level of stock of IR -1 machines falls to 500 

or below, Iran may maintain this level of stock by resuming production of IR-1 

machines at a rate up to the average monthly crash rate without exceeding the 

stock of 500.  

63. Consistent with its plan, at the end of year 8, Iran will commence 

manufacturing of IR-6 and IR-8 centrifuges without rotors through year 10 at a 

rate of up to 200 centrifuges per year for each type. After year 10, Iran will 

produce complete centrifuges with the same rate to meet its enrichment and 

enrichment R&D needs. Iran will store them at Natanz in an above ground 

location, under IAEA continuous monitoring, until they are needed for final 

assembly according to the enrichment and enrichment R&D plan.  

 

 L. ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL AND MODIFIED CODE 3.1 
 

64. Iran will notify the IAEA of provisional application of the Additional Protocol 

to its Safeguards Agreement in accordance with Article 17(b) of the Additional 

Protocol pending its entry into force, and subsequently seek ratification and 

entry into force, consistent with the respective roles of the President and the 

Majlis (Parliament). 

65. Iran will notify the IAEA that it will fully implement the Modified Code 3.1 of 

the Subsidiary Arrangement to Iran’s Safeguards Agreement as long as the 

Safeguards Agreement remains in force.  



 
S/2015/547 

 

31/104 15-12242 

 

 M. PAST AND PRESENT ISSUES OF CONCERN 
 

66. Iran will complete all activities as set out in paragraphs 2, 4, 5, and 6 of the 

“Roadmap for Clarification of Past and Present Outstanding Issues”, as 

verified by the IAEA in its regular updates by the Director General of the 

IAEA on the implementation of this Roadmap.  

 

 N. MODERN TECHNOLOGIES AND LONG TERM PRESENCE OF IAEA 
 

67. For the purpose of increasing the efficiency of monitoring for this JCPOA, for 

15 years or longer, for the specified verification measures:  

 67.1. Iran will permit the IAEA the use of on-line enrichment measurement 

and electronic seals which communicate their status within nuclear sites 

to IAEA inspectors, as well as other IAEA approved and certified 

modern technologies in line with internationally accepted IAEA practice. 

Iran will facilitate automated collection of IAEA measurement 

recordings registered by installed measurement devices and sending to 

IAEA working space in individual nuclear sites.  

 67.2. Iran will make the necessary arrangements to allow for a long -term IAEA 

presence, including issuing long-term visas, as well as providing proper 

working space at nuclear sites and, with best efforts, at locations near 

nuclear sites in Iran for the designated IAEA inspectors for working and 

keeping necessary equipment. 

 67.3. Iran will increase the number of designated IAEA inspectors to the range 

of 130-150 within 9 months from the date of the implementation of the 

JCPOA, and will generally allow the designation of inspectors from 

nations that have diplomatic relations with Iran, consistent with its la ws 

and regulations. 

 

 O. TRANSPARENCY RELATED TO URANIUM ORE CONCENTRATE (UOC) 
 

68. Iran will permit the IAEA to monitor, through agreed measures that will 

include containment and surveillance measures, for 25 years, that all uranium 

ore concentrate produced in Iran or obtained from any other source, is 

transferred to the uranium conversion facility (UCF) in Esfahan or to any other 

future uranium conversion facility which Iran might decide to build in Iran 

within this period. 

69. Iran will provide the IAEA with all necessary information such that the IAEA 

will be able to verify the production of the uranium ore concentrate and the 

inventory of uranium ore concentrate produced in Iran or obtained from any 

other source for 25 years. 

  
 P. TRANSPARENCY RELATED TO ENRICHMENT 

 

70. For 15 years, Iran will permit the IAEA to implement continuous monitoring, 

including through containment and surveillance measures, as necessary, to 

verify that stored centrifuges and infrastructure remain in storage, and are only 

used to replace failed or damaged centrifuges, as specified in this Annex.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 32/104 

 

71. Iran will permit the IAEA regular access, including daily access as requested 

by the IAEA, to relevant buildings at Natanz, including all parts of the FEP 

and PFEP, for 15 years.  

72. For 15 years, the Natanz enrichment site will be the sole location for all of 

Iran’s uranium enrichment related activities including safeguarded R&D.  

73. Iran intends to apply nuclear export policies and practices in line with the 

internationally established standards for the export of nuclear material, 

equipment and technology. For 15 years, Iran will only engage, including 

through export of any enrichment or enrichment related equipment and 

technology, with any other country, or with any foreign entity in enrichment or 

enrichment related activities, including related research and development 

activities, following approval by the Joint Commission.  

 

 Q. ACCESS 
 

74. Requests for access pursuant to provisions of this JCPOA will be made in 

good faith, with due observance of the sovereign rights of Iran, and kept to the 

minimum necessary to effectively implement the verification responsibilities 

under this JCPOA. In line with normal international safeguards practice, such 

requests will not be aimed at interfering with Iranian military or other national 

security activities, but will be exclusively for resolving concerns regarding 

fulfilment of the JCPOA commitments and Iran’s other non-proliferation and 

safeguards obligations. The following procedures are for the purpose of 

JCPOA implementation between the E3/EU+3 and Iran and are without 

prejudice to the safeguards agreement and the Additional Protocol thereto.  In 

implementing this procedure as well as other transparency measures, the IAEA 

will be requested to take every precaution to protect commercial, technological 

and industrial secrets as well as other confidential information coming to its 

knowledge.  

75. In furtherance of implementation of the JCPOA, if the IAEA has concerns 

regarding undeclared nuclear materials or activities, or activities inconsistent 

with the JCPOA, at locations that have not been declared under the 

comprehensive safeguards agreement or Additional Protocol, the IAEA will 

provide Iran the basis for such concerns and request clarification.  

76. If Iran’s explanations do not resolve the IAEA’s concerns, the Agency may 

request access to such locations for the sole reason to verify the absence of 

undeclared nuclear materials and activities or activities inconsistent with the 

JCPOA at such locations. The IAEA will provide Iran the reasons for access in 

writing and will make available relevant information.  

77. Iran may propose to the IAEA alternative means of resolving the IAEA’s 

concerns that enable the IAEA to verify the absence of undeclared nuclear 

materials and activities or activities inconsistent with the JCPOA at the 

location in question, which should be given due and prompt consideration . 

78. If the absence of undeclared nuclear materials and activities or activities 

inconsistent with the JCPOA cannot be verified after the implementation of the 

alternative arrangements agreed by Iran and the IAEA, or if the two sides are 

unable to reach satisfactory arrangements to verify the absence of undeclared 

nuclear materials and activities or activities inconsistent with the JCPOA at the 



 
S/2015/547 

 

33/104 15-12242 

 

specified locations within 14 days of the IAEA’s original request for access, 

Iran, in consultation with the members of the Joint Commission, would resolve 

the IAEA’s concerns through necessary means agreed between Iran and the 

IAEA. In the absence of an agreement, the members of the Joint Commission, 

by consensus or by a vote of 5 or more of its 8 members, would advise on the 

necessary means to resolve the IAEA’s concerns. The process of consultation 

with, and any action by, the members of the Joint Commission would not 

exceed 7 days, and Iran would implement the necessary means within  

3 additional days. 

 

 R. CENTRIFUGE COMPONENT MANUFACTURING TRANSPARENCY 
 

79. Iran and the IAEA will take the necessary steps for containment and 

surveillance on centrifuge rotor tubes and bellows for 20 years.  

80. In this context: 

 80.1. Iran will provide the IAEA with an initial inventory of all existing 

centrifuge rotor tubes and bellows and subsequent reports on changes in 

such inventory and will permit the IAEA to verify the inventory by item 

counting and numbering, and through containment and surveillance, of 

all rotor tubes and bellows, including in all existing and newly produced 

centrifuges. 

 80.2. Iran will declare all locations and equipment, namely flow -forming 

machines, filament-winding machines and mandrels that are used for 

production of centrifuge rotor tubes or bellows, and will permit the IAEA 

to implement continuous monitoring, including through containment and 

surveillance on this equipment, to verify that this equipment is being 

used to manufacture centrifuges only for the activities specified in this 

JCPOA.  

  
 S. OTHER URANIUM ISOTOPE SEPARATION ACTIVITIES 

 

81. For 10 years, Iran’s uranium isotope separation-related research and 

development or production activities will be exclusively based on gaseous 

centrifuge technology.2 Iran will permit IAEA access to verify that uranium 

isotope separation production and R&D activities are consistent with this 

Annex.  

 

 T. ACTIVITIES WHICH COULD CONTRIBUTE TO THE DESIGN AND 

DEVELOPMENT OF A NUCLEAR EXPLOSIVE DEVICE 
 

82. Iran will not engage in the following activities which could contribute to the 

development of a nuclear explosive device:  

 82.1. Designing, developing, acquiring, or using computer models to simulate 

nuclear explosive devices. 

__________________ 

 2  For the purpose of this Annex, non-gaseous centrifuge uranium isotope separation-related 

research and development or production will include laser isotope separation systems, 

electromagnetic isotope separation systems, chemical exchange systems, gaseous diffusion 

systems, vortex and aerodynamic systems, and other such processes that separate uranium 

isotopes. 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 34/104 

 

 82.2. Designing, developing, fabricating, acquiring, or using multi-point 

explosive detonation systems suitable for a nuclear explosive device, 

unless approved by the Joint Commission for non-nuclear purposes and 

subject to monitoring. 

 82.3. Designing, developing, fabricating, acquiring, or using explosive 

diagnostic systems (streak cameras, framing cameras and flash x -ray 

cameras) suitable for the development of a nuclear explosive device, 

unless approved by the Joint Commission for non-nuclear purposes and 

subject to monitoring. 

 82.4. Designing, developing, fabricating, acquiring, or using explosively 

driven neutron sources or specialized materials for explosively driven 

neutron sources. 

  



 
S/2015/547 

 

35/104 15-12242 

 

  Attachment: Arak conceptual design 
 

 

  Fundamental Principles: 
 

 • Maximize use of the current infrastructure of original design of Arak research 

reactor, designated by the IAEA as IR-40, according to their respective ratings.  

 • Modernizing of the original design in order to be a multi -purpose research 

reactor comprising radio-isotope production, structural materials and fuel (pins 

and assembly prototypes) testing and able to conduct other neutronic 

experiments which demand high neutron fluxes (more than 10
14

). 

 • Using heavy water as coolant, moderator and reflector. Light water would be 

utilized as an annular ring around the compact new core for safety reasons if 

necessary. 

 • Around 78 fuel assemblies in a tight hexagonal grid spacing with the following 

preliminary characteristics will be loaded.  

 • Up to 3.67 percent enriched UO2, in the improved assembly design, will be 

used as fuel. 

 • Power will not exceed to 20 MWth.  

 • Adding different types of beam tubes to the existing beam tubes which being 

extended to the edge of the new compact core.  

 • Having one central channel in the center of the new core with passive cooling 

system for the purpose of structural materials and fuel pins and assembly 

prototypes testing with neutron flux beyond 2•10
14

, twelve in-core irradiation 

channels (IIC) inside the core and twelve lateral irradiation chenna ls (LIC) just 

next to the outer ring of fuel assemblies.  

 • The location of the in-core and lateral irradiation channels should be designed 

and fixed to meet the best anticipated performances.  

 • Consistent with relevant section of Annex 1, subsidiary laboratories are part of 

the modernization project of the Arak Research Reactor. In Addition, Annex III 

reinforce design and construction of subsidiary laboratories. 

 • The highest tolerable pressure for the first and second loop is 0.33 Mpa (at the 

interance of the reactor pit). 

 • The highest possible flow rate for coolant is 610 kg/s at the pressure of 

0.33 MPa in the main piping system and 42 Kg/sec for Moderator with the 

same conditions. 

  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 36/104 

 

  Preliminary Characteristics: 
 

Core Parameters Values 

Power (MW) 20 

Number of fuel assemblies ~ 78 

Active length (cm) ~ 110 

Lattice configuration Hexagonal 

Fuel pellets Material UO2 

Fuel enrichment level Up to 3.67 % 

Clad material Zr Alloys 

Burnable poison Yes, if necessary 

Lattice pitch (cm) ~ 11 

Coolant medium D2O 

Moderator medium D2O 

Reflector medium D2O 

Reflector thickness (cm) ~ 50 

Purity of D2O ~ 99.8% 

Mass of D2O (mtons)  ~ 60-70  

Yearly makeup Yes 

Keff < 1.25 

Core Excess reactivity (pcm) < 20000 

Cycle length (days) approximatly ~ 250 
239

Pu at EoC (g) ~ 850 
239

Pu purity at EoC ~ 78% 
235

U consumption ~ 60% 

Maximum Thermal Flux, E<0.625ev  ~ 3•10
14 

Maximum Fast Flux, E>0.625ev ~ 1•10
14

 

Minimum Thermal Flux, E<0.625ev  ~ 1•10
14

 

Minimum Fast Flux, E>0.625ev  ~ 1•10
14

 

Fluid velocity in channels (m/s) ~ 3.8 

Channel mass flow rate (kg/s) ~ 2.4 

Working pressure (MPa) 0.33 

Fluid inlet temperature (
o
C) ~ 47 

Fluid outlet temperature (
o
C) ~ 78 

Core material  Mainly S.S. 304 

Core wall Thichness (mm)  ~ 30 

Fuel Pellet Diameter (cm)  ~ 0.65 

Inner Clad Diameter (cm)  ~ 0.67 

Outer Clad Diameter (cm)  ~ 0.8 

Number of pins per assembly 12 

Mass of UO2 in full core load (Kg)  ~ 350 

Core diameter (cm) ~ 240 
 

 



 
S/2015/547 

 

37/104 15-12242 

 

  JCPOA Annex II – Sanctions-related commitments  
 

 

The sequence of implementation of the commitments detailed in this Annex is 

specified in Annex V (Implementation Plan) to this Joint Comprehensive Plan of 

Action (JCPOA).  

A. European Union1  

1. The EU and EU Member States commit to terminate all provisions of Council 

Regulation (EU) No 267/2012 (as subsequently amended) implementing all 

nuclear-related sanctions or restrictive measures as specified in Sections  

1.1-1.10 below, to terminate all provisions of Council Decision 

2010/413/CFSP (as subsequently amended), as specified in Sections 1.1-1.10 

below, and to terminate or amend national implementing legislation as 

required, in accordance with Annex V:  

1.1. Financial, banking and insurance measures2  

1.1.1 Prohibition and authorisation regimes on financial transfers to and from Iran 

(Article 10 of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 30, 30a, 30b and 

31 of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012);  

1.1.2. Sanctions on banking activities (Article 11 of Council Decision 

2010/413/CFSP; Article 33 of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012);  

1.1.3. Sanctions on insurance (Article 12 of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; 

Article 35 of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012);  

1.1.4. Sanctions on financial messaging services (Article 20(12) of Council 

Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Article 23(4) of Council Regulation (EU)  

No 267/2012); 

1.1.5. Sanctions on financial support for trade with Iran (Article 8 of Council 

Decision 2010/413/CFSP); 

1.1.6. Sanctions on grants, financial assistance and concessional loans (Article 9 

of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP); 

1.1.7. Sanctions on Government of Iran public-guaranteed bonds (Article 13 of 

Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Article 34 of Council Regulation (EU) 

No 267/2012); and 

1.1.8. Sanctions on associated services3 for each of the categories above (see the 

references above). 

__________________ 

 1 For the purposes of EU legislation, “Iranian person, entity or body” means:  

  (i) the State of Iran or any public authority thereof;  

  (ii) any natural person in, or resident in, Iran;  

  (iii) any legal person, entity or body having its registered office in Iran;  

  (iv) any legal person, entity or body, inside or outside Iran, owned or controlled directly or 

indirectly by one or more of the above mentioned persons or bodies.  

 2  The headings and subheadings in this Annex are for descriptive purposes only.  

 3  For the purposes of this Annex, the term “associated services” means any service – including 

technical assistance, training, insurance, re-insurance, brokering, transportation or financial 

service – necessary and ordinarily incident to the underlying activity for which sanctions have 

been lifted pursuant to this JCPOA.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 38/104 

 

1.2. Oil, gas and petrochemical sectors 

1.2.1. Sanctions on the import of oil and gas from Iran (Articles 3a, 3c and 3e of 

Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 11, 12 and 14a, and Annexes IV 

and IVA of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); 

1.2.2. Sanctions on the import of Iranian petrochemical products (Articles 3b and 

3d of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 13 and 14, and Annex V of 

Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012);  

1.2.3. Sanctions on the export of key equipment for the oil, gas and petrochemical 

sectors (Articles 4, 4a and 4b of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 

8, 9 and 10, and Annexes VI and VIA of Council Regulation (EU) 

No 267/2012); 

1.2.4. Sanctions on investment in the oil, gas and petrochemical sectors (Articles 6, 

6a and 7 of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 17(1), 17(2)(b) and 

(c), 17(3), 17(4), 17(5), 20 and 21 of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); 

and 

1.2.5. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see the 

references above). 

1.3. Shipping, shipbuilding and transport sectors  

1.3.1. Sanctions related to shipping and shipbuilding (Articles 4g, 4h, 8a, 18a and 

18b of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 10a, 10b, 10c, 37a, and 

37b, and Annex VIB of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012);  

1.3.2. Sanctions related to the transport sector (Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 of 

Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 36 and 37 of Council Regulation 

(EU) No 267/2012); and 

1.3.3. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see the 

references above). 

1.4. Gold, other precious metals, banknotes and coinage  

1.4.1. Sanctions on gold, precious metals and diamonds, banknotes and coinage 

(Articles 4c and 4d of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 15 and 16, 

and Annex VII of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); and  

1.4.2. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see the 

references above). 

1.5. Nuclear proliferation-related measures 

1.5.1. Sanctions related to proliferation-sensitive nuclear activities (goods and 

technology, investment and specialised training) (Articles 1(1) (a), (b), (d), 

(e), (2), (3) and (4), 2, 3, 5, 14 and 21 of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; 

Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,7, 17(1) and (2)(a), 18, 19 and 22, and Annexes I, II and 

III of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); and  

1.5.2. Sanctions on associated services for the category above (see the references 

above). 



 
S/2015/547 

 

39/104 15-12242 

 

1.6. Metals 

1.6.1. Sanctions on metals (Articles 4e and 4f of Council Decision 

2010/413/CFSP; Articles 15a, 15b and 15c, and Annex VIIB of Council 

Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); and  

1.6.2. Sanctions on associated services for the category above (see the references 

above). 

1.7. Software 

1.7.1. Sanctions on software (Articles 4i and 4j of Council Decision 

2010/413/CFSP; Articles 10d, 10e and 10f, and Annex VIIA of Council 

Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); and  

1.7.2. Sanctions on associated services for the category above (see the references 

above). 

1.8. Arms 

1.8.1. Sanctions on arms (Articles 1(1)(c), (3) and (4), and 3 of Council Decision 

2010/413/CFSP; Articles 5(1)(a) and (c), 17(1) and (2)(a), and 19 of 

Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); and  

1.8.2. Sanctions on associated services for the category above (see the references 

above). 

1.9. Listing of persons, entities and bodies (asset freeze and visa ban)  

1.9.1. Asset freeze and visa ban measures applicable to:  

  1.9.1.1. listed Iranian banks and financial institutions, including the Central 

Bank of Iran; 

  1.9.1.2. listed persons, entities and bodies related to the oil, gas and 

petrochemical sectors; 

  1.9.1.3. listed persons, entities and bodies related to shipping, shipbuilding 

and transport; 

  1.9.1.4. other listed persons, entities and bodies not related to proliferation -

sensitive nuclear-, arms- and ballistic missile-related activities; 

  1.9.1.5. listed persons, entities and bodies related to proliferation-sensitive 

nuclear-, arms- and ballistic missile-related activities; and 

  1.9.1.6. entities and individuals listed by the UN Security Council, as set 

out in Attachment 1, part I to this Annex for categories 1.9.1.1 -

1.9.1.4, Attachment 2, part I to this Annex for category 1.9.1.5, and 

Parts II of Attachments 1 and 2 to this Annex for category 1.9.1.6 

(Articles 19 and 20, and Annexes I and II to Council Decision 

2010/413/CFSP; Articles 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 28a, 28b and 29, 

and Annexes VIII and IX to Council Regulation (EU) 

No 267/2012). 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 40/104 

 

1.10. Other provisions 

1.10.1. The commitment in Section 1 covers all remaining provisions of Council 

Decision 2010/413/CFSP and Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012 not 

specified above. 

1.10.1.1. Definitions (Article 1 of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012); and  

1.10.1.2. General and final provisions (Articles 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 26a, 27 and 28 

of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP; Articles 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 43a, 

44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 51, and Annex X of Council Regulation 

(EU) No 267/2012). 

2. The EU represents that the provisions listed in Section 1 above constitute 

the full and complete list of all EU nuclear-related sanctions or restrictive 

measures. These sanctions or restrictive measures will be lifted in 

accordance with Annex V.  

3. Effects of the lifting of EU economic and financial sanctions  

3.1. As a result of the lifting of sanctions specified in Section 1 above, the 

following activities, including associated services, will be allowed, 

beginning on implementation day, in accordance with this JCPOA and 

provided that such activities are otherwise consistent with EU and EU 

Member States’ laws and regulations in effect:4  

3.2. Financial, banking and insurance measures (See Sections 1.1.1 to 1.1.8)  

3.2.1. Transfers of funds between EU persons, entities or bodies, including EU 

financial and credit institutions, and Iranian persons, entities or bodies, 

including Iranian financial and credit institutions, without the 

requirement for authorisation or notification;  

3.2.2. Opening of new branches, subsidiaries or representative offices of Iranian 

banks in the territories of EU Member States; and the establishment of 

new joint ventures, or the taking of an ownership interest or the 

establishment of new correspondent banking relationships by Iranian 

banks with EU banks; and opening by EU persons, including EU financial 

and credit institutions, of representative offices, subsidiaries, joint 

ventures or bank accounts in Iran; 

3.2.3. Provision of insurance or reinsurance to Iran or the Government of Iran,  

an Iranian legal person, entity or body, or a natural person or a legal 

person, entity or body acting on their behalf or at their direction;  

3.2.4. Supply of specialised financial messaging services to any Iranian natural 

or legal persons, entities or bodies, including those listed in Attachment 1 

to this Annex; 

3.2.5. Entering into commitments by EU Member States to provide financial 

support for trade with Iran, including the granting of export credits, 

__________________ 

 4  Unless specifically provided otherwise, the sanctions lifting descr ibed in this Section does not 

apply to transactions that involve persons still subject to restrictive measures and is without 

prejudice to sanctions that may apply under legal provisions other than those referred to in 

Section 1. Nothing in this JCPOA reflects a change in Iran’s position on EU sanctions.  



 
S/2015/547 

 

41/104 15-12242 

 

guarantees or insurance; and into commitments for grants, financial 

assistance and concessional loans to the Government of Iran; and  

3.2.6. Sale or purchase of public or public-guaranteed bonds to and from Iran, 

the Government of Iran, the Central Bank of Iran, or Iranian banks and 

financial institutions or persons acting on their behalf. 

3.3. Oil, gas and petrochemical sectors (See Sections 1.2.1 to 1.2.5)  

3.3.1. Import, purchase, swap or transport of Iranian crude oil and petroleum 

products, natural gas or petrochemical products and related financing;  

3.3.2. Sale, supply, transfer or export of equipment or technology, technical 

assistance, including training, used in the sectors of the oil, gas and 

petrochemical industries in Iran covering exploration, production and 

refining of oil and natural gas, including liquefaction of natural gas, to any 

Iranian person, in or outside Iran, or for use in Iran; and  

3.3.3. Granting of any financial loan or credit to, the acquisition or extension of a 

participation in, and the creation of any joint venture with, any Iran ian 

person that is engaged in the oil, gas and petrochemical sectors in Iran or 

outside Iran. 

3.4. Shipping, shipbuilding and transport sectors (See Sections 1.3.1 to 1.3.3)  

3.4.1. Sale, supply, transfer or export of naval equipment and technology for ship  

building, maintenance or refit, to Iran or to any Iranian persons engaged in 

this sector; the design, construction or the participation in the design or 

construction of cargo vessels and oil tankers for Iran or for Iranian 

persons; the provision of vessels designed or used for the transport or 

storage of oil and petrochemical products to Iranian persons, entities or 

bodies; and the provision of flagging and classification services, including 

those pertaining to technical specification, registration and identification 

numbers of any kind, to Iranian oil tankers and cargo vessels;  

3.4.2. Access to the airports under the jurisdiction of EU Member States of all 

cargo flights operated by Iranian carriers or originating from Iran;  

3.4.3. Cessation of inspection, seizure and disposal by EU Member States of 

cargoes to and from Iran in their territories with regard to items which are 

no longer prohibited; and 

3.4.4. Provision of bunkering or ship supply services, or any other servicing of 

vessels, to Iranian-owned or Iranian-contracted vessels not carrying 

prohibited items; and the provision of fuel, engineering and maintenance 

services to Iranian cargo aircraft not carrying prohibited items.  

3.5. Gold, other precious metals, banknotes and coinage (See Sections 1.4.1 

to 1.4.2) 

3.5.1. Sale, supply, purchase, export, transfer or transport of gold and precious 

metals as well as diamonds, and provision of related brokering, financing 

and security services, to, from or for the Government of Iran, its public 

bodies, corporations and agencies, or the Central Bank of Iran; and  

3.5.2. Delivery of newly printed or minted or unissued Iranian denominated 

banknotes and coinage to, or for the benefit of the Central Bank of Iran.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 42/104 

 

3.6. Metals (See Sections 1.6.1 to 1.6.2) 

3.6.1. Sale, supply, transfer or export of graphite and raw or semi -finished metals, 

such as aluminum and steel to any Iranian person, entity or body or for use 

in Iran, in connection with activities consistent with this JCPOA.  

3.7. Software (See Sections 1.7.1 to 1.7.2) 

3.7.1. Sale, supply, transfer or export of software for integrating industrial 

processes, including updates, to any Iranian person, entity or body, or for use 

in Iran, in connection with activities consistent with this JCPOA,  

3.8. Listing of persons, entities and bodies (asset freeze and visa ban) (See 

Section 1.9.1) 

3.8.1. As a result of delisting as specified in this Annex, releasing of all funds and 

economic resources which belong to, and making available funds or 

economic resources to, the persons, entities and bodies, including Iranian 

banks and financial institutions, the Central Bank of Iran, listed in 

Attachment 1 to this Annex; and  

3.8.2. As a result of delisting as specified in this Annex, entry into, or transit 

through the territories of EU Member States of individuals listed in 

Attachment 1 to this Annex. 

  



 
S/2015/547 

 

43/104 15-12242 

 

B. United States5  

4. The United States commits to cease the application of, and to seek such 

legislative action as may be appropriate to terminate, or modify to effectuate 

the termination of, all nuclear-related sanctions6 as specified in Sections 4.1-

4.9 below, and to terminate Executive Orders 13574, 13590, 13622 and 

13645, and Sections 5-7 and 15 of Executive Order 13628, in accordance 

with Annex V.7  

4.1. Financial and banking measures 

4.1.1. Sanctions on transactions with individuals and entities set out in Attachment 3 

to this Annex, including: the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) and other specified 

Iranian financial institutions; the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), 8 

Naftiran Intertrade Company (NICO), National Iranian Tanker Company 

(NITC) and other specified individuals and entities identified as Government 

of Iran by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; and certain designated 

individuals and entities on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked 

Persons List (SDN List) (Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 

Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) Section 104(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I); National 

Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA) Sections 1245(d)(1) 

and (3); Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (IFCA) Sections 

1244(c)(1) and (d), 1245(a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(C)(i)(II) and (c), 1246(a) and 

1247(a); Sections 1(a)(i) and 5(a) of Executive Order (E.O.) 13622 and 

Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); 
__________________ 

 5  For the purposes of U.S. legislation, “Iranian person” means (A) an individual who is a citizen or 

national of Iran; and (B) an entity organised under the laws of Iran or otherwise subject to the 

jurisdiction of the Government of Iran.  

 6  The sanctions that the United States will cease to apply, and subsequently terminate, or modify to 

effectuate the termination of, pursuant to its commitment under Section 4 are those directed 

towards non-U.S. persons. For the purposes of Sections 4 and 6-7 of this JCPOA, the term  

“non-U.S. person” means any individual or entity, excluding (i) any United States citizen, 

permanent resident alien, entity organised under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction 

within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States, and  

(ii) any entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person. For the purposes of (ii) of the preceding 

sentence, an entity is “owned or controlled” by a U.S. person if the U.S. person: (i) holds a  

50 percent or greater equity interest by vote or value in the entity; (ii) holds a majority of seats 

on the board of directors of the entity; or (iii) otherwise controls the actions, policies, or 

personnel decisions of the entity. U.S. persons and U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities 

will continue to be generally prohibited from conducting transactions of the type permitted 

pursuant to this JCPOA, unless authorised to do so by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s 

Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).  

 7  All citations to statutes and Executive orders included in this JCPOA refer to the statute or 

Executive order as amended as of the conclusion date of this JCPOA, including: the Iran 

Sanctions Act of 1996 (ISA), as amended by Section 102 of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 

Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) and Sections 201 -207 and 311 of the Iran 

Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (TRA); CISADA, as amended by 

Sections 214-216, 222, 224, 311-312, 402-403 and 605 of TRA and Section 1249 of the Iran 

Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (IFCA); the National Defense Authorization Act 

for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA), as amended by Sections 503 -504 of TRA and Section 1250 of 

IFCA; Executive Order (E.O.) 13622, as amended by Section 15 of E.O. 13628 and Section 16 of 

E.O. 13645. The citations listed in Section 4 include authorities under which secondary sanctions 

will no longer apply as a result of actions described in Section 4.8.1.  

 8  Removal of NIOC from the SDN List, as provided for in Section 4.8.1, will include resolution of 

related designations and determinations.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 44/104 

 

4.1.2. Sanctions on the Iranian Rial (NDAA Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); IFCA 

Sections 1244(c)(1), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and 

Sections 1(a), 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645);  

4.1.3. Sanctions on the provision of U.S. banknotes to the Government of Iran 

(NDAA Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1) and (d), 

1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and Sections 2(a)(i) and 

3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); 

4.1.4. Bilateral trade limitations on Iranian revenues held abroad, including 

limitations on their transfer (NDAA Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); IFCA 

Sections 1244(c)(1), (d) and (h)(2), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Sections 1(a)(i) -

(ii), 2(a)(i) and 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of 

E.O. 13645); 

4.1.5. Sanctions on the purchase, subscription to, or facilitation of the issuance of 

Iranian sovereign debt, including governmental bonds (NDAA Sections 

1245(d)(1) and (3); Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 

2012 (TRA) Section 213(a); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1) and (d), 1246(a) and 

1247(a); Sections 1(a)(i) and 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and Sections 2(a)(i) and 

3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); 

4.1.6. Sanctions on financial messaging services to the CBI and Iranian financial 

institutions set out in Attachment 3 to this Annex (NDAA Sections 

1245(d)(1) and (3); TRA Section 220; IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1) and (d), 

1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and Sections 2(a)(i) and 

3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); and  

4.1.7. Sanctions on associated services9 for each of the categories above (see 

individual citation references above).  

4.2. Insurance measures 

4.2.1. Sanctions on the provision of underwriting services, insurance, or  

re-insurance in connection with activities consistent with this JCPOA, 

including activities with individuals and entities set forth in Attachment 3 to 

this Annex (Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (ISA) Section 5(a)(7); NDAA 

Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); TRA Sections 211(a) and 212(a); IFCA Sections 

1244(c)(1) and (d), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and 

Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645).  

4.3. Energy and petrochemical sectors 

4.3.1. Efforts to reduce Iran’s crude oil sales, including limitations on the quantities 

of Iranian crude oil sold and the nations that can purchase Iranian crude oil  

(ISA Section 5(a)(7); NDAA Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); TRA Section 

212(a); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1) and (d), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 1 of 

E.O. 13574, Sections 1(a)(i)-(ii), 2(a)(i) and 5(a) of E.O. 13622, Section 5 of 

E.O. 13628, and Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); 

4.3.2. Sanctions on investment, including participation in joint ventures, goods, 

services, information, technology and technical expertise and support for 

Iran’s oil, gas, and petrochemical sectors (ISA Sections 5(a)(1) -(2) and  

__________________ 

 9  See footnote 3 for the meaning of “associated services”.  



 
S/2015/547 

 

45/104 15-12242 

 

(4)-(8); TRA Section 212(a); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1), (d) and (h)(2), 

1245(a)(1)(B), (a)(1)(C)(i)(I)-(II), (a)(1)(C)(ii)(I)-(II) and (c), 1246(a) and 

1247(a); Section 1 of E.O. 13574, Section 1 of E.O. 13590, Sections 1(a)(i) -

(ii), 2(a)(i)-(iii) and 5(a) of E.O. 13622, and Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of 

E.O. 13645); 

4.3.3. Sanctions on the purchase, acquisition, sale, transportation, or marketing of 

petroleum, petrochemical products and natural gas from Iran (NDAA 

Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); TRA Section 212(a); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1), 

(d) and (h)(2), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Sections 1(a)(i) -(iii), 2(a)(i)-(ii) and 5(a) 

of E.O. 13622, and Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645);  

4.3.4. Sanctions on the export, sale or provision of refined petroleum products and 

petrochemical products to Iran (ISA Section 5(a)(3); NDAA Sections 

1245(d)(1) and (3); TRA Section 212(a); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1) and (d), 

1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 1 of E.O. 13574, Sections 1(a)(i) and 5(a) of 

E.O. 13622, Section 5 of E.O. 13628, and Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of 

E.O. 13645); 

4.3.5. Sanctions on transactions with Iran’s energy sector including with NIOC, 

NICO and NITC (NDAA Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); IFCA Sections 

1244(c)(1), (d) and (h)(2), 1246(a) and 1247(a); TRA Section 212(a); 

Sections 1(a)(i)-(iii), 2(a)(i)-(ii) and 5(a) of E.O. 13622, and Sections 2(a)(i) 

and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); and  

4.3.6. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see 

individual citation references above).  

4.4. Shipping, shipbuilding and port sectors 

4.4.1. Sanctions on transactions with Iran’s shipping and shipbuilding sectors and 

port operators including IRISL, South Shipping Line, and NITC, and the port 

operator(s) of Bandar Abbas10 (TRA Sections 211(a) and 212(a); IFCA 

Sections 1244(c)(1) and (d); 1245(a)(1)(B), (a)(1)(C)(i)(I)-(II), (a)(1)(C)(ii)(I)-

(II) and (c), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and Sections 

2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); and  

4.4.2. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see 

individual citation references above).  

4.5. Gold and other precious metals 

4.5.1. Sanctions on Iran’s trade in gold and other precious metals (NDAA Sections 

1245(d)(1) and (3); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1), 1245(a)(1)(A) and (c), 

1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and Sections 2(a)(i) and 

3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); and  

4.5.2. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see 

individual citation references above).  

4.6. Software and metals 

4.6.1. Sanctions on trade with Iran in graphite, raw or semi -finished metals such as 

aluminum and steel, coal, and software for integrating industrial processes, 
__________________ 

 10  This commitment in Section 4.4.1 is based on the port operator(s) of Bandar Abbas no longer 

being controlled by a person on the SDN List.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 46/104 

 

in connection with activities consistent with this JCPOA, including trad e 

with individuals and entities set forth in Attachments 3 and 4 to this Annex 

(NDAA Sections 1245(d)(1) and (3); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1), 

1245(a)(1)(B)-(C) and (c), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 

and Sections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13645); and 

4.6.2. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see 

individual citation references above).  

4.7. Automotive sector 

4.7.1. Sanctions on the sale, supply or transfer of goods and services used in 

connection with Iran’s automotive sector (NDAA Sections 1245(d)(1) and 

(3); IFCA Sections 1244(c)(1), 1245(a)(1)(B), (a)(1)(C)(i)(II), 

(a)(1)(C)(ii)(II) and (c), 1246(a) and 1247(a); Section 5(a) of E.O. 13622 and 

Sections 2(a)(i), 3(a)(i)-(ii), 5 and 6 of E.O. 13645); and  

4.7.2. Sanctions on associated services for each of the categories above (see 

individual citation references above).  

4.8. Designations and other sanctions listings  

4.8.1. Removal of individuals and entities set out in Attachments 3 and 4 to this 

Annex from the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List 

(SDN List), the Foreign Sanctions Evaders List, and/or the Non-SDN Iran 

Sanctions Act List (Removal of designations and/or sanctions imposed under 

ISA Section 5(a), IFCA Section 1244(d)(1) and TRA Sect ion 212; and 

removals pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 

certain persons listed pursuant to E.O. 13382, E.O. 13608, E.O. 13622, and 

E.O. 13645). 

4.9. Nuclear proliferation-related measures 

4.9.1. Sanctions under the Iran, North Korea and Syria Nonproliferation Act on the 

acquisition of nuclear-related commodities and services for nuclear activities 

contemplated in the JCPOA, to be consistent with the U.S. approach to other 

non-nuclear-weapon states under the NPT; 

4.9.2. Sanctions on joint ventures relating to the mining, production, or 

transportation of uranium (ISA Section 5(b)(2)); and  

4.9.3. Exclusion of Iranian citizens from higher education coursework related to 

careers in nuclear science, nuclear engineering or the energy sector (TRA 

Section 501). 

5. Other trade measures 

5.1. The United States commits to:11  

5.1.1. Allow for the sale of commercial passenger aircraft and related parts and 

services to Iran by licensing the (i) export, re-export, sale, lease or transfer to 

Iran of commercial passenger aircraft for exclusively civil aviation end -use, 

__________________ 

 11  To give effect to the measures described in this Section 5.1, the United States will license 

activities that do not involve any person on the SDN List and are otherwise consistent with 

applicable U.S. laws and regulations, including but not limited to the Export Administration Act, 

the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Iran -Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act. 



 
S/2015/547 

 

47/104 15-12242 

 

(ii) export, re-export, sale, lease or transfer to Iran of spare parts and 

components for commercial passenger aircraft, and (iii) provision of 

associated serviced, including warranty, maintenance, and repair services and 

safety-related inspections, for all the foregoing, provided that licensed items 

and services are used exclusively for commercial passenger aviation;12  

5.1.2. License non-U.S. entities that are owned or controlled by a U.S. person13 to 

engage in activities with Iran that are consistent with this JCPOA; and  

5.1.3. License the importation into the United States of Iranian-origin carpets and 

foodstuffs, including pistachios and caviar.  

6. The United States represents that the provisions listed in Section 4 above 

constitute the full and complete list of all U.S. nuclear -related sanctions. 

These sanctions will be lifted in accordance with Annex V.  

7. Effects of the lifting of U.S. economic and financial sanctions:  

7.1. As a result of the lifting of sanctions specified in Section 4 above, beginning 

on implementation day such sanctions, including associated services, would 

not apply to non-U.S. persons who carry out the following or that:14  

7.2. Financial and banking measures15 (See Sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.7) 

 Engage in activities, including financial and banking transactions, with the 

Government of Iran, the Central Bank of Iran, Iranian financial institutions 

and other Iranian persons specified in Attachment 3 to this Annex, including 

the provision of loans, transfers, accounts (including the opening and 

maintenance of correspondent and payable through accounts at non -U.S. 

financial institutions), investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange 

(including Rial related transactions), letters of credit and commodity futures 

or options, the provision of specialised financial messaging services and 

facilitation of direct or indirect access thereto, the purchase or acquisition by 

__________________ 

 12  Licenses issued in furtherance of Section 5.1.1 will include appropriate conditions to ensure that 

licensed activities do not involve, and no licensed aircraft, goods, or services are re -sold or  

re-transferred to, any person on the SDN list. Should the United States determine that licensed 

aircraft, goods, or services have been used for purposes other than exclusively civil aviation  

end-use, or have been re-sold or re-transferred to persons on the SDN List, the United States 

would view this as grounds to cease performing its commitments under Section 5.1.1  in whole or 

in part. 

 13  For the purposes of Section 5.1.2 of this JCPOA, a non -U.S. entity is owned or controlled by a 

U.S. person if the U.S. person: (i) holds a 50 per cent or greater equity interest by vote or value 

in the entity; (ii) holds a majority of seats on the board of directors of the entity; or 

(iii) otherwise controls the actions, policies, or personnel decisions of the entity.  

 14  Unless specifically provided otherwise, the sanctions lifting described in this Section does not 

apply to transactions that involve persons on the SDN List and is without prejudice to sanctions 

that may apply under legal provisions other than those cited in Section 4. Nothing in this JCPOA 

reflects a change in Iran’s position on U.S. sanctions.  

 15  For the purposes of the cessation of application of the provisions set out in Sections 4.1.1 -4.1.7, 

the effects described for non-U.S. financial institutions extend to the activities outside of U.S. 

jurisdiction of international financial institutions.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 48/104 

 

the Government of Iran of U.S. bank notes, and the purchase, subscription to, 

or facilitation of the issuance of Iranian sovereign debt.16  

7.3. Insurance measures (See Section 4.2.1) 

 Provide underwriting services, insurance, or re-insurance in connection with 

activities consistent with this JCPOA, including activities with individuals 

and entities set forth in Attachment 3 to this Annex, including underwriting 

services, insurance, or re-insurance in connection with activities in the 

energy, shipping, and shipbuilding sectors of Iran, for the National Iranian 

Oil Company (NIOC) or the National Iranian Tanker Company (NITC), or 

for vessels that transport crude oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, 

petroleum and petrochemical products to or from Iran.  

7.4. Energy and petrochemical sectors (See Sections 4.3.1 to 4.3.6) 

 Are part of the energy sector of Iran; purchase, acquire, sell, transport or 

market petroleum, petroleum products (including refined petroleum 

products), petrochemical products or natural gas (including liquefied natural 

gas) to or from Iran; provide to Iran support, investment (including through 

joint ventures), goods, services (including financial services) and technology 

that can be used in connection with Iran’s energy sector, the development of 

its petroleum resources, its domestic production of refined petroleum 

products and petrochemical products; or engage in activities with Iran’s 

energy sector, including NIOC, NITC, and NICO).  

7.5. Shipping, shipbuilding and port sectors (See Sections 4.4.1 to 4.4.2)  

 Are part of the shipping or shipbuilding sectors of Iran; own, operate, control 

or insure a vessel used to transport crude oil, petroleum products (including 

refined petroleum products), petrochemical products or natural gas 

(including liquefied natural gas) to or from Iran; operate a por t in Iran, 

engage in activities with, or provide financial services and other goods and 

services used in connection with, the shipping and shipbuilding sectors of 

Iran or a port operator in Iran (including the port operator(s) of Bandar 

Abbas17), including port services, such as bunkering and inspection, 

classification, and financing, and the sale, leasing, and provision of vessels 

to Iran, including to the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines (IRISL), 

NITC, and South Shipping Line Iran or their affiliates.  

7.6. Gold and other precious metals (See Sections 4.5.1 to 4.5.2)  

 Sell, supply, export or transfer, directly or indirectly, to or from Iran, gold 

and other precious metals, or conduct or facilitate a financial transaction or 

__________________ 

 16  Non-U.S., non-Iranian financial institutions engaging in transactions with Iranian financial 

institutions (including the Central Bank of Iran) not appearing on the SDN List will not be 

exposed to sanctions as a result of those Iranian financial institutions engaging in t ransactions or 

banking relationships involving Iranian individuals and entities, including financial institutions, 

on the SDN List, provided that the non-U.S., non-Iranian financial institution does not conduct 

or facilitate, and is not otherwise involved in, those specific transactions or banking relationships 

with the Iranian individuals and entities, including financial institutions, on the SDN List.  

 17  The effects described in Section 7.5 with respect to the port operator(s) of Bandar Abbas are 

based on the port operator(s) of Bandar Abbas no longer being controlled by a person on the 

SDN List. 



 
S/2015/547 

 

49/104 15-12242 

 

provide services for the foregoing including security, insurance and 

transportation. 

7.7. Software and metals (See Sections 4.6.1 to 4.6.2)  

 Sell, supply, or transfer, directly or indirectly, graphite, raw or semi -finished 

metals such as aluminum and steel, coal, and software for integrating 

industrial processes, to or from Iran in connection with activities consistent 

with this JCPOA, including trade with individuals and entities set forth in 

Attachment 3 to this Annex, and the sale, supply, or transfer of such 

materials to the energy, petrochemical, shipping and shipbuilding sectors of 

Iran, and Iranian ports, or conduct or facilitate a financial transaction or 

provide services for the foregoing, including insurance and transportation.  

7.8. Automotive sector (See Sections 4.7.1 to 4.7.2) 

 Conduct or facilitate financial or other transactions for the sale, supply or 

transfer to Iran of goods and services used in connection with the automotive 

sector of Iran. 

7.9. Designations and other sanctions listings (See Section 4.8.1)  

 The removal of designations and/or sanctions as described in Section 4.8.1, 

ceasing the application of secondary sanctions for transactions with 

individuals and entities set out in Attachment 3 to this Annex; and unblocking 

of property and interests in property within U.S. jurisdiction for individuals 

and entities set out in Attachment 3 to this Annex.  

 

  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 50/104 

 

ATTACHMENT 1 - PART I 
 

 

LIST OF PERSONS, ENTITIES AND BODIES SET OUT IN ANNEX II TO 

COUNCIL DECISION 2010/413/CFSP AND ANNEX IX TO COUNCIL 

REGULATION (EU) NO 267/2012 

 

 

ACENA SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

ADVANCE NOVEL  

AGHAJARI OIL & GAS PRODUCTION COMPANY  

AGHAZADEH, Reza 

AHMADIAN, Mohammad 

AKHAVAN-FARD, Massoud 

ALPHA EFFORT LTD  

ALPHA KARA NAVIGATION LIMITED  

ALPHA NARI NAVIGATION LIMITED  

ARIAN BANK  

ARVANDAN OIL & GAS COMPANY  

ASHTEAD SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

ASPASIS MARINE CORPORATION  

ASSA CORPORATION  

ASSA CORPORATION LTD  

ATLANTIC INTERMODAL  

AVRASYA CONTAINER SHIPPING LINES  

AZARAB INDUSTRIES 

AZORES SHIPPING COMPANY ALIAS AZORES SHIPPING FZE LLC  

BANCO INTERNACIONAL DE DESARROLLO CA  

BANK KARGOSHAE  

BANK MELLAT 

BANK MELLI IRAN INVESTMENT COMPANY  

BANK MELLI IRAN ZAO  

BANK MELLI PRINTING AND PUBLISHING COMPANY  

BANK MELLI, 

BANK OF INDUSTRY AND MINE  

BANK REFAH KARGARAN  

BANK TEJARAT  

BATENI, Naser 

BEST PRECISE LTD  

BETA KARA NAVIGATION LTD  

BIIS MARITIME LIMITED  

BIS MARITIME LIMITED  

BONAB RESEARCH CENTER  

BRAIT HOLDING SA  

BRIGHT JYOTI SHIPPING  

BRIGHT SHIP FZC  

BUSHEHR SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

BYFLEET SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

CEMENT INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY  

CENTRAL BANK OF IRAN  

CHAPLET SHIPPING LIMITED  

COBHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  



 
S/2015/547 

 

51/104 15-12242 

 

CONCEPT GIANT LTD  

COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT BANK  

CRYSTAL SHIPPING FZE  

DAJMAR, Mohammad Hossein 

DAMALIS MARINE CORPORATION  

DARYA CAPITAL ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

DARYA DELALAN SEFID KHAZAR SHIPPING COMPANY  

DELTA KARA NAVIGATION LTD  

DELTA NARI NAVIGATION LTD  

DIAMOND SHIPPING SERVICES  

DORKING SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

EAST OIL & GAS PRODUCTION COMPANY  

EDBI EXCHANGE COMPANY  

EDBI STOCK BROKERAGE COMPANY  

EFFINGHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

EIGHTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

EIGHTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

ELBRUS LTD  

ELCHO HOLDING LTD 

ELEGANT TARGET DEVELOPMENT LIMITED  

ELEVENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

ELEVENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

EMKA COMPANY  

EPSILON NARI NAVIGATION LTD  

E-SAIL A.K.A.E-SAIL SHIPPING COMPANY  

ETA NARI NAVIGATION LTD  

ETERNAL EXPERT LTD.  

EUROPÄISCH-IRANISCHE HANDELSBANK  

EXPORT DEVELOPMENT BANK OF IRAN  

FAIRWAY SHIPPING  

FAQIHIAN, Dr Hoseyn 

FARNHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

FASIRUS MARINE CORPORATION  

FATSA  

FIFTEENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FIFTEENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FIFTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FIFTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FIRST ISLAMIC INVESTMENT BANK  

FIRST OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FIRST OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FIRST PERSIAN EQUITY FUND  

FOURTEENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FOURTEENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FOURTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FOURTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FUTURE BANK BSC  

GACHSARAN OIL & GAS COMPANY  

GALLIOT MARITIME INCORPORATION  

GAMMA KARA NAVIGATION LTD  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 52/104 

 

GIANT KING LIMITED  

GOLDEN CHARTER DEVELOPMENT LTD.  

GOLDEN SUMMIT INVESTMENTS LTD.  

GOLDEN WAGON DEVELOPMENT LTD.  

GOLPARVAR, Gholam Hossein 

GOMSHALL SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

GOOD LUCK SHIPPING COMPANY LLC  

GRAND TRINITY LTD.  

GREAT EQUITY INVESTMENTS LTD.  

GREAT METHOD LTD  

GREAT PROSPECT INTERNATIONAL LTD.  

HAFIZ DARYA SHIPPING LINES  

HANSEATIC TRADE TRUST & SHIPPING GMBH  

HARVEST SUPREME LTD.  

HARZARU SHIPPING  

HELIOTROPE SHIPPING LIMITED  

HELIX SHIPPING LIMITED  

HK INTERTRADE COMPANY LTD  

HONG TU LOGISTICS PRIVATE LIMITED  

HORSHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

IFOLD SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

INDUS MARITIME INCORPORATION  

INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & RENOVATION ORGANIZATION  

INSIGHT WORLD LTD  

INTERNATIONAL SAFE OIL  

IOTA NARI NAVIGATION LIMITED  

IRAN ALUMINIUM COMPANY  

IRAN FUEL CONSERVATION ORGANIZATION  

IRAN INSURANCE COMPANY  

IRAN LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS CO. 

IRANIAN OFFSHORE ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION CO  

IRANIAN OIL COMPANY LIMITED  

IRANIAN OIL PIPELINES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY 

(IOPTC) 

IRANIAN OIL TERMINALS COMPANY  

IRANO MISR SHIPPING COMPANY  

IRINVESTSHIP LTD  

IRISL (MALTA) LTD  

IRISL EUROPE GMBH  

IRISL MARINE SERVICES AND ENGINEERING COMPANY  

IRISL MARITIME TRAINING INSTITUTE  

IRITAL SHIPPING SRL  

ISI MARITIME LIMITED  

ISIM AMIN LIMITED  

ISIM ATR LIMITED  

ISIM OLIVE LIMITED  

ISIM SAT LIMITED  

ISIM SEA CHARIOT LTD  

ISIM SEA CRESCENT LTD  

ISIM SININ LIMITED  



 
S/2015/547 

 

53/104 15-12242 

 

ISIM TAJ MAHAL LTD  

ISIM TOUR COMPANY LIMITED  

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  

JACKMAN SHIPPING COMPANY  

KALA NAFT 

KALAN KISH SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

KAPPA NARI NAVIGATION LTD 

KARA SHIPPING AND CHARTERING GMBH  

KAROON OIL & GAS PRODUCTION COMPANY  

KAVERI MARITIME INCORPORATION  

KAVERI SHIPPING LLC  

KEY CHARTER DEVELOPMENT LTD. 

KHALILIPOUR, Said Esmail 

KHANCHI, Ali Reza 

KHAZAR EXPL & PROD CO  

KHAZAR SHIPPING LINES  

KHEIBAR COMPANY  

KING PROSPER INVESTMENTS LTD.  

KINGDOM NEW LTD  

KINGSWOOD SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

KISH SHIPPING LINE MANNING COMPANY  

LAMBDA NARI NAVIGATION LIMITED  

LANCING SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

LOGISTIC SMART LTD  

LOWESWATER LTD  

MACHINE SAZI ARAK  

MAGNA CARTA LIMITED  

MALSHIP SHIPPING AGENCY  

MARBLE SHIPPING LIMITED  

MAROUN OIL & GAS COMPANY 

MASJED-SOLEYMAN OIL & GAS COMPANY   

MASTER SUPREME INTERNATIONAL LTD.  

MAZANDARAN CEMENT COMPANY  

MEHR CAYMAN LTD.  

MELLAT BANK SB CJSC  

MELLI AGROCHEMICAL COMPANY PJS  

MELLI BANK PLC  

MELLI INVESTMENT HOLDING INTERNATIONAL  

MELODIOUS MARITIME INCORPORATION  

METRO SUPREME INTERNATIONAL LTD.  

MIDHURST SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED (MALTA)  

MILL DENE LTD  

MINISTRY OF ENERGY  

MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM  

MODALITY LTD  

MODERN ELEGANT DEVELOPMENT LTD.  

MOUNT EVEREST MARITIME INCORPORATION  

NAFTIRAN INTERTRADE COMPANY  

NAFTIRAN INTERTRADE COMPANY SRL 

NAMJOO, Majid 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 54/104 

 

NARI SHIPPING AND CHARTERING GMBH & CO. KG  

NARMADA SHIPPING  

NATIONAL IRANIAN DRILLING COMPANY  

NATIONAL IRANIAN GAS COMPANY  

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL COMPANY  

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL COMPANY NEDERLAND (A.K.A.: NIOC 

NETHERLANDS REPRESENTATION OFFICE)  

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL COMPANY PTE LTD  

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL COMPANY, INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS LIMITED  

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION COMPANY 

(NIOEC) 

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (NIOPDC)  

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL REFINING AND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY  

NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  

NEUMAN LTD  

NEW DESIRE LTD  

NEW SYNERGY  

NEWHAVEN SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

NINTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

NINTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

NOOR AFZA GOSTAR 

NORTH DRILLING COMPANY  

NUCLEAR FUEL PRODUCTION AND PROCUREMENT COMPANY  

OCEAN CAPITAL ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

OCEAN EXPRESS AGENCIES PRIVATE LIMITED  

ONERBANK ZAO  

OXTED SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

PACIFIC SHIPPING  

PARS SPECIAL ECONOMIC ENERGY ZONE  

PARTNER CENTURY LTD  

PEARL ENERGY COMPANY LTD  

PEARL ENERGY SERVICES, SA  

PERSIA INTERNATIONAL BANK PLC 

PETRO SUISSE 

PETROIRAN DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD  

PETROLEUM ENGINEERING & DEVELOPMENT COMPANY  

PETROPARS INTERNATIONAL FZE  

PETROPARS IRAN COMPANY  

PETROPARS LTD.  

PETROPARS OILFIELD SERVICES COMPANY  

PETROPARS OPERATION & MANAGEMENT COMPANY  

PETROPARS RESOURCES ENGINEERING LTD  

PETROPARS UK LIMITED  

PETWORTH SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

POST BANK OF IRAN  

POWER PLANTS’ EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING COMPANY (SAAKHTE 

TAJHIZATE NIROOGAHI) 

PROSPER METRO INVESTMENTS LTD.  

RASTKHAH, Engineer Naser 

REIGATE SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  



 
S/2015/547 

 

55/104 15-12242 

 

RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF NUCLEAR SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY  

REZVANIANZADEH, Mohammad Reza 

RISHI MARITIME INCORPORATION  

SACKVILLE HOLDINGS LTD 

SAFIRAN PAYAM DARYA SHIPPING COMPANY  

SALEHI, Ali Akbar 

SANFORD GROUP 

SANTEXLINES  

SECOND OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

SECOND OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

SEIBOW LOGISTICS LIMITED  

SEVENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

SEVENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

SHALLON LTD  

SHEMAL CEMENT COMPANY  

SHINE STAR LIMITED  

SHIPPING COMPUTER SERVICES COMPANY  

SILVER UNIVERSE INTERNATIONAL LTD.  

SINA BANK  

SINO ACCESS HOLDINGS  

SINOSE MARITIME  

SISCO SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

SIXTEENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

SIXTEENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

SIXTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

SIXTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

SMART DAY HOLDINGS LTD  

SOLTANI, Behzad 

SORINET COMMERCIAL TRUST (SCT) 

SOROUSH SARAMIN ASATIR  

SOUTH WAY SHIPPING AGENCY CO. LTD  

SOUTH ZAGROS OIL & GAS PRODUCTION COMPANY  

SPARKLE BRILLIANT DEVELOPMENT LIMITED  

SPRINGTHORPE LIMITED  

STATIRA MARITIME INCORPORATION  

SUREH (NUCLEAR REACTORS FUEL COMPANY)  

SYSTEM WISE LTD  

TAMALARIS CONSOLIDATED LTD  

TENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

TENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

TEU FEEDER LIMITED  

THETA NARI NAVIGATION  

THIRD OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

THIRD OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

THIRTEENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

THIRTEENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

TOP GLACIER COMPANY LIMITED  

TOP PRESTIGE TRADING LIMITED  

TRADE CAPITAL BANK  

TRADE TREASURE  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 56/104 

 

TRUE HONOUR HOLDINGS LTD  

TULIP SHIPPING INC  

TWELFTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

TWELFTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

UNIVERSAL TRANSPORTATION LIMITATION UTL  

VALFAJR 8TH SHIPPING LINE 

WEST OIL & GAS PRODUCTION COMPANY  

WESTERN SURGE SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

WISE LING SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

ZANJANI, Babak 

ZETA NERI NAVIGATION 

 

  



 
S/2015/547 

 

57/104 15-12242 

 

ATTACHMENT 1 - PART II 
 

 

LIST OF PERSONS, ENTITIES AND BODIES SET OUT IN ANNEX I TO 

COUNCIL DECISION 2010/413/CFSP AND ANNEX VIII TO COUNCIL 

REGULATION (EU) NO 267/2012 

 

 

AGHA-JANI, Dawood 

ALAI, Amir Moayyed 

ASGARPOUR, Behman 

ASHIANI, Mohammad Fedai 

ASHTIANI, Abbas Rezaee 

ATOMIC ENERGY ORGANISATION OF IRAN (AEOI) 

BAKHTIAR, Haleh 

BEHZAD, Morteza 

ESFAHAN NUCLEAR FUEL RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION CENTRE 

(NFRPC) AND ESFAHAN NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY CENTRE (ENTC)  

FIRST EAST EXPORT BANK, P.L.C.: 

HOSSEINI, Seyyed Hussein 

IRANO HIND SHIPPING COMPANY  

IRISL BENELUX NV 

JABBER IBN HAYAN  

KARAJ NUCLEAR RESEARCH CENTRE  

KAVOSHYAR COMPANY 

LEILABADI, Ali Hajinia 

MESBAH ENERGY COMPANY 

MODERN INDUSTRIES TECHNIQUE COMPANY  

MOHAJERANI, Hamid-Reza 

MOHAMMADI, Jafar 

MONAJEMI, Ehsan  

NOBARI, Houshang 

NOVIN ENERGY COMPANY  

NUCLEAR RESEARCH CENTER FOR AGRICULTURE AND MEDICINE  

PARS TRASH COMPANY 

PISHGAM (PIONEER) ENERGY INDUSTRIES  

QANNADI, Mohammad 

RAHIMI, Amir 

RAHIQI, Javad 

RASHIDI, Abbas 

SABET, M. Javad Karimi 

SAFDARI, Seyed Jaber 

SOLEYMANI, Ghasem 

SOUTH SHIPPING LINE IRAN (SSL)  

TAMAS COMPANY 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 58/104 

 

ATTACHMENT 2 - PART I 
 

 

LIST OF PERSONS, ENTITIES AND BODIES SET OUT IN ANNEX II TO 

COUNCIL DECISION 2010/413/CFSP AND ANNEX IX TO COUNCIL 

REGULATION (EU) NO 267/2012 

 

 

AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES ORGANISATION, AIO  

AL YASIN, Javad 

ALUMINAT 

ANSAR BANK  

ARAN MODERN DEVICES  

ARAS FARAYANDE  

ARFA PAINT COMPANY 

ARFEH COMPANY 

ARIA NIKAN,  

ARMED FORCES GEOGRAPHICAL ORGANISATION  

ASHTIAN TABLO  

BABAEI, Davoud 

BALS ALMAN  

BANK SADERAT IRAN 

BANK SADERAT PLC  

BARGH AZARAKSH  

BEHNAM SAHRIYARI TRADING COMPANY  

BONYAD TAAVON SEPAH  

BORBORUDI, Sayed Shamsuddin 

DANESHJOO, Kamran 

DARVISH-VAND, IRGC Brigadier-General Javad 

ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS INDUSTRIES  

ESNICO (EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER FOR NUCLEAR INDUSTRIES 

CORPORATION) 

ETEMAD AMIN INVEST CO MOBIN  

EYVAZ TECHNIC 

FADAVI, Rear Admiral Ali 

FAJR AVIATION COMPOSITE INDUSTRIES 

FARAHI, IRGC Brigadier-General Seyyed Mahdi 

FARASEPEHR ENGINEERING COMPANY  

FATAH, Parviz 

GHANI SAZI URANIUM COMPANY  

HAERI, Engineer Mojtaba 

HIRBOD CO  

HOSEYNITASH, IRGC Brigadier-General Ali 

HOSSEINI NEJAD TRADING CO. 

INSTITUTE OF APPLIED PHYSICS  

IRAN AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES  

IRAN AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING COMPANY  

IRAN CENTRIFUGE TECHNOLOGY COMPANY  

IRAN COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRIES  

IRAN COMPOSITES INSTITUTE  

IRAN ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIES  

IRAN MARINE INDUSTRIAL COMPANY  



 
S/2015/547 

 

59/104 15-12242 

 

IRAN POOYA  

IRAN SAFFRON COMPANY OR IRANSAFFRON CO. 

IRANIAN AVIATION INDUSTRIES ORGANIZATION  

IRGC AIR FORCE  

IRGC QODS FORCE  

IRGC-AIR FORCE AL-GHADIR MISSILE COMMAND  

ISFAHAN OPTICS  

ISLAMIC REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS  

JAFARI, Milad 

JAVEDAN MEHR TOOS  

JELVESAZAN COMPANY  

KARANIR  

KARIMIAN, Ali 

KHALA AFARIN PARS  

KHANSARI, Majid  

MAAA SYNERGY  

MACPAR MAKINA SAN VE TIC 

MAHMUDZADEH, Ebrahim 

MARINE INDUSTRIES  

MAROU SANAT  

MATSA (MOHANDESI TOSEH SOKHT ATOMI COMPANY)  

MECHANIC INDUSTRIES GROUP  

MEHR BANK  

MINISTRY OF DEFENSE AND SUPPORT FOR ARMED FORCES LOGISTICS  

MOBIN SANJESH  

MODERN TECHNOLOGIES FZC 

MOHAMMADI, Mohammad 

MOHAMMADLU, Brigadier-General Beik 

MOVASAGHNIA, Mohammad Reza 

MULTIMAT LC VE DIS TICARET PAZARLAMA LIMITED SIRKETI  

NACCACHE, Anis 

NADERI, Brigadier-General Mohammad 

NAJJAR, IRGC Brigadier-General Mostafa Mohammad 

NAQDI, BrigGen Mohammad Reza  

NASERI, Mohammad Sadegh 

NASERIN VAHID  

NEDA INDUSTRIAL GROUP  

NEKA NOVIN  

NOAVARAN POOYAMOJ  

NOURI, Ali Ashraf 

OIL INDUSTRY PENSION FUND INVESTMENT COMPANY  

ORGANISATION OF DEFENSIVE INNOVATION AND RESEARCH 

PAKPUR, BrigGen Mohammad  

PARCHIN CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES 

PARTO SANAT CO  

PASSIVE DEFENSE ORGANIZATION  

PAYA PARTO  

QASEMI, Rostam (a.k.a. Rostam GHASEMI)  

RAAD IRAN  

RAKA 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 60/104 

 

RESEARCH CENTRE FOR EXPLOSION AND IMPACT  

ROSMACHIN  

SAIDI, Hojatoleslam Ali 

SALAMI, BrigGen Hossein 

SAMAN NASB ZAYENDEH ROOD; SAMAN NASBZAINDE ROOD  

SAMAN TOSE’E ASIA  

SAMEN INDUSTRIES 

SCHILLER NOVIN  

SEPANIR OIL AND GAS ENERGY ENGINEERING COMPANY  

SHAFI’I RUDSARI, Rear Admiral Mohammad  

SHAHID AHMAD KAZEMI INDUSTRIAL GROUP  

SHAHID BEHESHTI UNIVERSITY  

SHAKHESE BEHBUD SANAT  

SHAMS, Abolghassem Mozaffari 

SHAMSHIRI, IRGC Brigadier-General Ali 

SHARIF UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY  

SHETAB G. 

SHETAB GAMAN 

SHETAB TRADING 

SHIRAZ ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIES  

SIMATEC DEVELOPMENT COMPANY  

SOLAT SANA, Abdollah 

SOLTANI, Hamid 

STATE PURCHASING ORGANISATION  

STEP STANDART TEKNIK PARCA SAN VE TIC A.S.  

SUN MIDDLE EAST FZ COMPANY  

SURENA (A.K.A. SAKHD VA RAH-AN- DA-ZI) 

TABA (IRAN CUTTING TOOLS MANUFACTURING COMPANY - TABA 

TOWLID ABZAR BORESHI IRAN) 

TAGHTIRAN  

TAJHIZ SANAT SHAYAN  

TECHNOLOGY COOPERATION OFFICE OF THE IRANIAN PRESIDENT’S 

OFFICE  

TEST TAFSIR  

TIDEWATER  

TOSSE SILOOHA  

TURBINE ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING  

VAHIDI, IRGC Brigadier-General Ahmad 

WEST SUN TRADE GMBH 

Y.A.S. CO. LTD 

YARSANAT  

YASA PART 

ZADEH, Amir Ali Haji 



 
S/2015/547 

 

61/104 15-12242 

 

ATTACHMENT 2 - PART II 
 

 

LIST OF PERSONS, ENTITIES AND BODIES SET OUT IN ANNEX I TO 

COUNCIL DECISION 2010/413/CFSP AND ANNEXES VIII TO COUNCIL 

REGULATION (EU) NO 267/2012 

 

 

7TH OF TIR. 

ABBASI-DAVANI, Fereidoun 

ABZAR BORESH KAVEH CO.  

AGHAJANI, Azim 

AHMADIAN, Ali Akbar 

AMIN INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX  

AMMUNITION AND METALLURGY INDUSTRIES GROUP  

ARMAMENT INDUSTRIES GROUP  

BAHMANYAR, Bahmanyar Morteza 

BANK SEPAH  

BANK SEPAH INTERNATIONAL 

BARZAGANI TEJARAT TAVANMAD SACCAL COMPANIES 

BEHINEH TRADING CO. 

CRUISE MISSILE INDUSTRY GROUP  

DASTJERDI, Ahmad Vahid 

DEFENCE INDUSTRIES ORGANISATION (DIO)  

DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY AND SCIENCE RESEARCH CENTER  

DERAKHSHANDEH, Ahmad 

DOOSTAN INTERNATIONAL COMPANY  

ELECTRO SANAM COMPANY  

ESLAMI, Mohammad  

ESMAELI, Reza-Gholi 

ETTEHAD TECHNICAL GROUP  

FAJR INDUSTRIAL GROUP 

FAKHRIZADEH-MAHABADI, Mohsen 

FARASAKHT INDUSTRIES  

FARAYAND TECHNIQUE 

FATER (OR FAATER) INSTITUTE 

GHARAGAHE SAZANDEGI GHAEM  

GHORB KARBALA  

GHORB NOOH  

HARA COMPANY 

HEJAZI, Mohammad 

HOJATI, Mohsen 

IMENSAZAN CONSULTANT ENGINEERS INSTITUTE  

INDUSTRIAL FACTORIES OF PRECISION (IFP) MACHINERY  

JOZA INDUSTRIAL CO.  

KALA-ELECTRIC  

KAVEH CUTTING TOOLS COMPANY  

KETABACHI, Mehrdada Akhlaghi  

KHATAM AL-ANBIYA CONSTRUCTION HEADQUARTERS  

KHORASAN METALLURGY INDUSTRIES  

M. BABAIE INDUSTRIES 

MAKIN  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 62/104 

 

MALEK ASHTAR UNIVERSITY  

MALEKI, Naser 

MINISTRY OF DEFENSE LOGISTICS EXPORT  

MIZAN MACHINERY MANUFACTURING A.K.A.: 3MG  

NAQDI, Mohammad Reza 

NEJAD NOURI, Mohammad Mehdi 

NIRU BATTERY MANUFACTURING COMPANY  

OMRAN SAHEL  

ORIENTAL OIL KISH  

PARCHIN CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES  

PARS AVIATION SERVICES COMPANY  

PEJMAN INDUSTRIAL SERVICES CORPORATION  

QODS AERONAUTICS INDUSTRIES 

RAH SAHEL  

RAHAB ENGINEERING INSTITUTE  

REZAIE, Morteza 

SABALAN COMPANY  

SAD IMPORT EXPORT COMPANY 

SAFARI, Morteza 

SAFAVI, Yahya Rahim 

SAFETY EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT (SEP)  

SAHAND ALUMINUM PARTS INDUSTRIAL COMPANY  

SAHEL CONSULTANT ENGINEERS  

SALIMI, Hosein 

SANAM INDUSTRIAL GROUP  

SEPANIR  

SEPASAD ENGINEERING COMPANY  

SHAHID BAGHERI INDUSTRIAL GROUP (SBIG)  

SHAHID HEMMAT INDUSTRIAL GROUP (SHIG) 

SHAHID KARRAZI INDUSTRIES  

SHAHID SATARRI INDUSTRIES  

SHAHID SAYYADE SHIRAZI INDUSTRIES  

SHO’A’ AVIATION. 

SOLEIMANI, Qasem 

SPECIAL INDUSTRIES GROUP 

TABATABAEI, Ali Akbar 

TIZ PARS  

YA MAHDI INDUSTRIES GROUP 

YAS AIR 

YAZD METALLURGY INDUSTRIES  

ZAHEDI, Mohammad Reza 

ZOLQADR, General 

 



 
S/2015/547 

 

63/104 15-12242 

 

ATTACHMENT 3 
 

 

IRANIAN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND INDIVIDUAL AND ENTITIES 

IDENTIFIED AS GOVERNMENT OF IRAN (GOI) ON THE SDN LIST; 

DESIGNATED ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS ON THE SDN LIST AND 

ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS LISTED ON THE FSE LIST; INDIVIDUALS 

AND ENTITIES SANCTIONED UNDER ISA; BLOCKED PROPERTY OF THE 

FOREGOING 

 

 

AA ENERGY FZCO* 

ABAN AIR 

ADVANCE NOVEL LIMITED 

AFZALI, Ali 

AGHA-JANI, Dawood 

AL AQILI GROUP LLC 

AL AQILI, Mohamed Saeed 

AL FIDA INTERNATIONAL GENERAL TRADING  

AL HILAL EXCHANGE 

ALPHA EFFORT LIMITED 

AMERI, Teymour 

AMIN INVESTMENT BANK* 

ANTARES SHIPPING COMPANY NV  

ARASH SHIPPING ENTERPRISES LIMITED* 

ARIAN BANK 

ARTA SHIPPING ENTERPRISES LIMITED* 

ASAN SHIPPING ENTERPRISE LIMITED* 

ASCOTEC HOLDING GMBH* 

ASCOTEC JAPAN K.K.* 

ASCOTEC MINERAL & MACHINERY GMBH* 

ASCOTEC SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY GMBH* 

ASCOTEC STEEL TRADING GMBH* 

ASHTEAD SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 

ASIA BANK 

ASIA ENERGY GENERAL TRADING (LLC)* 

ASIA MARINE NETWORK PTE. LTD. 

ASSA CO. LTD. 

ASSA CORP. 

ATLANTIC INTERMODAL 

ATOMIC ENERGY ORGANIZATION OF IRAN  

AZORES SHIPPING COMPANY LL FZE  

BAHADORI, Masoud* 

BANCO INTERNACIONAL DE DESARROLLO, C.A.  

BANDAR IMAM PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY*  

BANK KARGOSHAEE 

BANK KESHAVARZI IRAN* 

__________________ 

 *  Denotes Iranian financial institutions and individuals and entities identified as GOI by the Office 
of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). U.S. persons and foreign entities owned or controlled by a 

U.S. person will continue to be prohibited from transactions with these individuals and entities, 

pursuant to the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 64/104 

 

BANK MARKAZI JOMHOURI ISLAMI IRAN* 

BANK MASKAN* 

BANK MELLAT* 

BANK MELLI IRAN INVESTMENT COMPANY  

BANK MELLI IRAN* 

BANK MELLI PRINTING AND PUBLISHING CO.  

BANK OF INDUSTRY AND MINE (OF IRAN)* 

BANK REFAH KARGARAN* 

BANK SEPAH INTERNATIONAL PLC 

BANK SEPAH* 

BANK TEJARAT* 

BANK TORGOVOY KAPITAL ZAO* 

BANK-E SHAHR* 

BATENI, Naser 

BAZARGAN, Farzad* 

BEHSAZ KASHANE TEHRAN CONSTRUCTION CO.* 

BEHZAD, Morteza Ahmadali 

BELFAST GENERAL TRADING LLC 

BEST PRECISE LIMITED 

BIIS MARITIME LIMITED 

BIMEH IRAN INSURANCE COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED*  

BLUE TANKER SHIPPING SA* 

BMIIC INTERNATIONAL GENERAL TRADING LTD  

BOU ALI SINA PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY*  

BREYELLER STAHL TECHNOLOGY GMBH & CO. KG*  

BUSHEHR SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 

BYFLEET SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 

CAMBIS, Dimitris* 

CASPIAN MARITIME LIMITED* 

CAUCASUS ENERGY 

CEMENT INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY  

CENTRAL INSURANCE OF IRAN  

CISCO SHIPPING COMPANY CO. LTD. 

COBHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 

COMMERCIAL PARS OIL CO.* 

CONCEPT GIANT LIMITED 

CREDIT INSTITUTION FOR DEVELOPMENT* 

CRYSTAL SHIPPING FZE 

CYLINDER SYSTEM L.T.D.* 

DAJMAR, Mohhammad Hossein 

DANESH SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

DARYA CAPITAL ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

DAVAR SHIPPING CO LTD* 

DENA TANKERS FZE* 

DERAKHSHANDEH, AHMAD 

DETTIN SPA 

DEY BANK* 

DFS WORLDWIDE 

DIVANDARI, Ali 

DORKING SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 



 
S/2015/547 

 

65/104 15-12242 

 

EDBI EXCHANGE COMPANY 

EDBI STOCK BROKERAGE COMPANY  

EFFINGHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

EGHTESAD NOVIN BANK* 

EIGHTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

EIGHTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

ELEVENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

ELEVENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

ESFAHAN NUCLEAR FUEL RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION CENTER 

ESLAMI, Mansour 

EUROPAISCH-IRANISCHE HANDELSBANK AG* 

EUROPEAN OIL TRADERS 

EVEREX 

EXECUTION OF IMAM KHOMEINI’S ORDER*  

EXPORT DEVELOPMENT BANK OF IRAN*  

EZATI, Ali 

FAIRWAY SHIPPING LTD 

FAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED 

FARNHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 

FARSOUDEH, Houshang 

FAYLACA PETROLEUM 

FERLAND COMPANY LIMITED 

FIFTEENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FIFTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FIFTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FIRST EAST EXPORT BANK, P.L.C.  

FIRST ISLAMIC INVESTMENT BANK LTD.  

FIRST OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FIRST OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FIRST PERSIA EQUITY FUND 

FOURTEENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FOURTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

FOURTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

FUTURE BANK B.S.C.* 

GALLIOT MARITIME INC 

GARBIN NAVIGATION LTD* 

GEORGIAN BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT  

GHADIR INVESTMENT COMPANY* 

GHAED BASSIR PETROCHEMICAL PRODUCTS COMPANY*  

GHALEBANI, Ahmad* 

GHARZOLHASANEH RESALAT BANK* 

GHAVAMIN BANK* 

GHEZEL AYAGH, Alireza 

GOLDEN RESOURCES TRADING COMPANY L.L.C.* 

GOLDENTEX FZE 

GOLPARVAR, Gholamhossein 

GOMSHALL SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

GOOD LUCK SHIPPING L.L.C. 

GRACE BAY SHIPPING INC* 

GREAT BUSINESS DEALS 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 66/104 

 

GREAT METHOD LIMITED 

HADI SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

HAFIZ DARYA SHIPPING CO 

HARAZ SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

HATEF SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

HEKMAT IRANIAN BANK* 

HERCULES INTERNATIONAL SHIP* 

HERMIS SHIPPING SA* 

HIRMAND SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

HODA SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

HOMA SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

HONAR SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED*  

HONG KONG INTERTRADE COMPANY* 

HORMOZ OIL REFINING COMPANY* 

HORSHAM SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 

HOSSEINPOUR, Houshang 

HTTS HANSEATIC TRADE TRUST AND SHIPPING, GMBH  

IDEAL SUCCESS INVESTMENTS LIMITED 

IFIC HOLDING AG* 

IHAG TRADING GMBH* 

IMPIRE SHIPPING COMPANY* 

INDUS MARITIME INC 

INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND RENOVATION ORGANIZATION OF 

IRAN* 

INTERNATIONAL SAFE OIL 

INTRA CHEM TRADING GMBH* 

IRAN & SHARGH COMPANY* 

IRAN & SHARGH LEASING COMPANY* 

IRAN AIR 

IRAN FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY* 

IRAN INSURANCE COMPANY* 

IRAN O HIND SHIPPING COMPANY  

IRAN O MISR SHIPPING COMPANY  

IRAN PETROCHEMICAL COMMERCIAL COMPANY* 

IRAN ZAMIN BANK* 

IRANAIR TOURS 

IRANIAN MINES AND MINING INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT AND 

RENOVATION ORGANIZATION* 

IRANIAN OIL COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED* 

IRANIAN-VENEZUELAN BI-NATIONAL BANK / JOINT IRAN-VENEZUELA 

BANK* 

IRASCO S.R.L.* 

IRINVESTSHIP LTD. 

IRISL (MALTA) LIMITED 

IRISL (UK) LTD. 

IRISL CHINA SHIPPING CO., LTD. 

IRISL EUROPE GMBH 

IRISL MARINE SERVICES & ENGINEERING COMPANY  

IRISL MULTIMODAL TRANSPORT CO. 

IRITAL SHIPPING SRL COMPANY  



 
S/2015/547 

 

67/104 15-12242 

 

ISI MARITIME LIMITED 

ISIM AMIN LIMITED 

ISIM ATR LIMITED 

ISIM OLIVE LIMITED 

ISIM SAT LIMITED 

ISIM SEA CHARIOT LIMITED 

ISIM SEA CRESCENT LIMITED 

ISIM SININ LIMITED 

ISIM TAJ MAHAL LIMITED 

ISIM TOUR LIMITED 

ISLAMIC REGIONAL COOPERATION BANK*  

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  

JABBER IBN HAYAN 

JAM PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY 

JASHNSAZ, Seifollah* 

JUPITER SEAWAYS SHIPPING* 

KADDOURI, Abdelhak 

KAFOLATBANK* 

KALA LIMITED* 

KALA PENSION TRUST LIMITED* 

KARAFARIN BANK* 

KASB INTERNATIONAL LLC* 

KAVERI MARITIME INC 

KAVOSHYAR COMPANY 

KERMAN SHIPPING CO LTD 

KHALILI, Jamshid 

KHAVARMIANEH BANK* 

KHAZAR SEA SHIPPING LINES 

KISH INTERNATIONAL BANK* 

KISH PROTECTION & INDEMNITY 

KONING MARINE CORP* 

KONT INVESTMENT BANK 

KONT KOSMETIK 

KSN FOUNDATION 

KUO OIL PTE. LTD 

LANCELIN SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED 

LEADING MARITIME PTE. LTD. 

LEILABADI, Ali Hajinia 

LISSOME MARINE SERVICES LLC 

LOGISTIC SMART LIMITED 

LOWESWATER LIMITED 

MACHINE SAZI ARAK CO. LTD.* 

MAHAB GHODSS CONSULTING ENGINEERING COMPANY*  

MAHDAVI, Ali 

MALSHIP SHIPPING AGENCY LTD. 

MARANER HOLDINGS LIMITED 

MARBLE SHIPPING LIMITED 

MARJAN PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

MAZANDARAN CEMENT COMPANY 

MAZANDARAN TEXTILE COMPANY 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 68/104 

 

MCS ENGINEERING* 

MCS INTERNATIONAL GMBH* 

MEHR CAYMAN LTD. 

MEHR IRAN CREDIT UNION BANK* 

MEHRAN SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

MELLAT BANK SB CJSC 

MELLAT INSURANCE COMPANY* 

MELLI AGROCHEMICAL COMPANY, P.J.S. 

MELLI BANK PLC 

MELLI INVESTMENT HOLDING INTERNATIONAL  

MELODIOUS MARITIME INC 

MERSAD SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

MESBAH ENERGY COMPANY 

METAL & MINERAL TRADE S.A.R.L.* 

MID OIL ASIA PTE LTD 

MILL DENE LIMITED 

MINAB SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED*  

MINES AND METALS ENGINEERING GMBH*  

MIR BUSINESS BANK ZAO 

MOALLEM INSURANCE COMPANY 

MOBIN PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

MODABER* 

MODALITY LIMITED 

MOGHADDAMI FARD, Mohammad  

MOHADDES, Seyed Mahmoud* 

MOINIE, Mohammad* 

MONSOON SHIPPING LTD* 

MOUNT EVEREST MARITIME INC 

MSP KALA NAFT CO. TEHRAN* 

N.I.T.C. REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE* 

NABIPOUR, Ghasem 

NAFTIRAN INTERTRADE CO. (NICO) LIMITED*  

NAFTIRAN INTERTRADE CO. (NICO) SARL* 

NAFTIRAN TRADING SERVICES CO. (NTS) LIMITED*  

NARI SHIPPING AND CHARTERING GMBH & CO. KG  

NASIRBEIK, Anahita 

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL COMPANY PTE LTD* 

NATIONAL IRANIAN OIL COMPANY* 

NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY LLC* 

NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY* 

NATIONAL PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

NAYEBI, Pourya 

NEFERTITI SHIPPING COMPANY  

NEUMAN LIMITED 

NEW DESIRE LIMITED 

NEW YORK GENERAL TRADING 

NEW YORK MONEY EXCHANGE 

NICO ENGINEERING LIMITED* 

NIKOUSOKHAN, Mahmoud* 

NIKSIMA FOOD AND BEVERAGE JLT  



 
S/2015/547 

 

69/104 15-12242 

 

NINTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

NINTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

NIOC INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (LONDON) LIMITED*  

NIZAMI, Anwar Kamal 

NOOR AFZAR GOSTAR COMPANY 

NOOR ENERGY (MALAYSIA) LTD.* 

NOURI PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

NOVIN ENERGY COMPANY 

NPC INTERNATIONAL LIMITED* 

NUCLEAR RESEARCH CENTER FOR AGRICULTURE AND MEDICINE  

NUCLEAR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE  

OCEAN CAPITAL ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

OIL INDUSTRY INVESTMENT COMPANY* 

OMID REY CIVIL & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY*  

ONE CLASS PROPERTIES (PTY) LTD.* 

ONE VISION INVESTMENTS 5 (PTY) LTD.* 

ONERBANK ZAO* 

ORCHIDEA GULF TRADING 

P.C.C. (SINGAPORE) PRIVATE LIMITED* 

PACIFIC SHIPPING DMCEST  

PAJAND, Mohammad Hadi 

PARDIS INVESTMENT COMPANY* 

PARS MCS* 

PARS OIL AND GAS COMPANY* 

PARS OIL CO.* 

PARS PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

PARS PETROCHEMICAL SHIPPING COMPANY*  

PARS TRASH COMPANY 

PARSAEI, Reza* 

PARSIAN BANK* 

PARTNER CENTURY LIMITED 

PARVARESH, Farhad Ali 

PASARGAD BANK* 

PEARL ENERGY COMPANY LTD. 

PEARL ENERGY SERVICES, SA 

PERSIA INTERNATIONAL BANK PLC 

PERSIA OIL & GAS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT CO.* 

PETRO ENERGY INTERTRADE COMPANY* 

PETRO ROYAL FZE* 

PETRO SUISSE INTERTRADE COMPANY SA*  

PETROCHEMICAL COMMERCIAL COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED*  

PETROCHEMICAL COMMERCIAL COMPANY FZE* 

PETROCHEMICAL COMMERCIAL COMPANY INTERNATIONAL*  

PETROIRAN DEVELOPMENT COMPANY (PEDCO) LIMITED*  

PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA S.A. (PDVSA)  

PETROPARS INTERNATIONAL FZE* 

PETROPARS LTD.* 

PETROPARS UK LIMITED* 

PIONEER ENERGY INDUSTRIES COMPANY  

POLAT, Muzaffer 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 70/104 

 

POLINEX GENERAL TRADING LLC* 

POLYNAR COMPANY* 

POST BANK OF IRAN* 

POURANSARI, Hashem* 

PROTON PETROCHEMICALS SHIPPING LIMITED* 

PRYVATNE AKTSIONERNE TOVARYSTVO AVIAKOMPANIYA BUKOVYNA  

QANNADI, Mohammad 

QULANDARY, Azizullah Asadullah 

RAHIQI, Javad 

RASOOL, Seyed Alaeddin Sadat 

REY INVESTMENT COMPANY* 

REY NIRU ENGINEERING COMPANY* 

REYCO GMBH.* 

REZVANIANZADEH, Mohammed Reza 

RISHI MARITIME INC 

RISHMAK PRODUCTIVE & EXPORTS COMPANY*  

ROYAL ARYA CO.* 

ROYAL OYSTER GROUP 

ROYAL-MED SHIPPING AGENCY LTD 

SABET, Javad Karimi 

SACKVILLE HOLDINGS LIMITED 

SADAF PETROCHEMICAL ASSALUYEH COMPANY* 

SAFDARI, Seyed Jaber 

SAFIRAN PAYAM DARYA SHIPPING COMPANY  

SAMAN BANK* 

SAMAN SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED*  

SAMBOUK SHIPPING FZC* 

SANDFORD GROUP LIMITED 

SANTEX LINES LIMITED 

SARKANDI, Ahmad 

SARMAYEH BANK* 

SARV SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

SECOND OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

SECOND OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

SEIBOW LIMITED 

SEIBOW LOGISTICS LIMITED  

SEIFI, Asadollah 

SEPID SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

SEVENTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

SEVENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

SEYYEDI, Seyed Nasser Mohammad*  

SEYYEDI, Seyedeh Hanieh Seyed Nasser Mohammad  

SHAHID TONDGOOYAN PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

SHALLON LIMITED 

SHAZAND PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

SHERE SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

SHIPPING COMPUTER SERVICES COMPANY  

SHOMAL CEMENT COMPANY 

SIMA GENERAL TRADING CO FZE* 

SIMA SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 



 
S/2015/547 

 

71/104 15-12242 

 

SINA BANK* 

SINA SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

SINGA TANKERS PTE. LTD. 

SINO ACCESS HOLDINGS LIMITED  

SINOSE MARITIME PTE. LTD. 

SIQIRIYA MARITIME CORP. 

SIXTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

SIXTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG 

SMART DAY HOLDINGS GROUP LIMITED 

SOKOLENKO, Vitaly 

SORINET COMMERCIAL TRUST (SCT) BANKERS  

SOROUSH SARZAMIN ASATIR SHIP MANAGEMENT COMPANY  

SOUTH SHIPPING LINE IRAN  

SPEEDY SHIP FZC 

SPRINGTHORPE LIMITED 

STARRY SHINE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 

SWISS MANAGEMENT SERVICES SARL* 

SYNERGY GENERAL TRADING FZE* 

SYSTEM WISE LIMITED 

TABATABAEI, Seyyed Mohammad Ali Khatibi* 

TABRIZ PETROCHEMICAL COMPANY* 

TADBIR BROKERAGE COMPANY* 

TADBIR CONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT COMPANY* 

TADBIR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GROUP* 

TADBIR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT GROUP CO.* 

TADBIR INVESTMENT COMPANY* 

TAFAZOLI, Ahmad 

TALAI, Mohamad 

TAMAS COMPANY 

TAT BANK* 

TC SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED* 

TENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

THE EXPLORATION AND NUCLEAR RAW MATERIALS PRODUCTION 

COMPANY 

THE NUCLEAR REACTORS FUEL COMPANY  

THIRD OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH 

THIRD OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

THIRTEENTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

TONGHAM SHIPPING CO LTD  

TOP GLACIER COMPANY LIMITED 

TOP PRESTIGE TRADING LIMITED 

TOSEE EQTESAD AYANDEHSAZAN COMPANY* 

TOSEE TAAVON BANK* 

TOURISM BANK* 

TRADE TREASURE LIMITED 

TRUE HONOUR HOLDINGS LIMITED 

TWELFTH OCEAN ADMINISTRATION GMBH  

TWELFTH OCEAN GMBH & CO. KG  

UPPERCOURT SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED  

VALFAJR 8TH SHIPPING LINE CO SSK  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 72/104 

 

VOBSTER SHIPPING COMPANY LTD  

WEST SUN TRADE GMBH* 

WIPPERMANN, Ulrich 

WOKING SHIPPING INVESTMENTS LIMITED 

YASINI, Seyed Kamal 

YAZDI, Bahareh Mirza Hossein 

ZADEH, Hassan Jalil 

ZANJANI, Babak Morteza 

ZARIN RAFSANJAN CEMENT COMPANY*  

ZEIDI, Hossein 

ZHUHAI ZHENRONG COMPANY 

ZIRACCHIAN ZADEH, Mahmoud* 

 

 



 
S/2015/547 

 

73/104 15-12242 

 

 

BLOCKED PROPERTY PROPERTY OF TYPE 
IMO 

NUMBER 

EP-CFD IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFE IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFH IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFI IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFJ IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFK IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFL IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFM IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFO IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFP IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFQ IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-CFR IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAA IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAB IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAC IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAD IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAG IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAH IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAI IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IAM IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBA IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBB IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBC IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBD IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBG IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBH IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBI IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBJ IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBK IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBL IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBM IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBN IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBP IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBQ IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBS IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBT IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBV IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IBZ IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-ICD IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-ICE IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-ICF IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IDA IRAN AIR Aircraft  

  

 
×
 Denotes blocked property of individual and entities identified as GOI by the Office of Foreign 

Assets Control. U.S. persons and foreign entities owned or controlled by a U.S. person will 

continue to be prohibited from transactions with these individuals and entities, pursuant to the 

Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations.
 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 74/104 

 

 

EP-IDD IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IDF IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IDG IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IEB IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IEC IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IED IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IEE IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IEF IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IEG IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IRK IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IRL IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IRM IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IRN IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IRR IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IRS IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-IRT IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-MDD IRAN AIR Aircraft  

EP-MDE IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-BXI IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-BXL IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-BXM IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-CGS IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-CGT IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-CHW IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-CHX IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-CHY IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-CHZ IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-CJQ IRAN AIR Aircraft  

UR-BHJ PRYVATNE AKTSIONERNE TOVARYSTVO 

AVIAKOMPANIYA  

Aircraft  

UR-BXN PRYVATNE AKTSIONERNE TOVARYSTVO 

AVIAKOMPANIYA  

Aircraft  

UR-CIX PRYVATNE AKTSIONERNE TOVARYSTVO 

AVIAKOMPANIYA  

Aircraft  

UR-CIY PRYVATNE AKTSIONERNE TOVARYSTVO 

AVIAKOMPANIYA  

Aircraft  

UR-CJA PRYVATNE AKTSIONERNE TOVARYSTVO 

AVIAKOMPANIYA  

Aircraft  

UR-CJK PRYVATNE AKTSIONERNE TOVARYSTVO 

AVIAKOMPANIYA  

Aircraft  

RIONA HAFIZ DARYA SHIPPING CO Vessel 9349588 

MIRZA KOCHEK KHAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 7027899 

ASSA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 7632814 

AMITEES ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 7632826 

HORMUZ 2 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 7904580 

PARMIDA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8105284 

BARSAM ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8107581 

PANTEA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8108559 



 
S/2015/547 

 

75/104 15-12242 

 

IRAN AKHAVAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8113009 

SARINA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8203608 

SABRINA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8215742 

ATTRIBUTE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309593 

ALIAS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309608 

AQUARIAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309610 

ADVENTIST ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309622 

AGEAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309634 

ANGEL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309646 

AGILE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309658 

AJAX ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309672 

ACROBAT ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309684 

SHADFAR  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8309696 

AMPLIFY ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel  8309701 

IRAN HORMUZ 21 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8314263 

IRAN HORMUZ 22 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8314275 

IRAN HORMUZ 23 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8319782 

IRAN SHALAK ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 8319940 

IRAN YOUSHAT ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8319952 

AEROLITE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8320121 

ADRIAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8320133 

NAGHMEH ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 8320145 

RONAK ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8320157 

ACCURATE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8320169 

TABANDEH ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8320171 

GULAFSHAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 8320183 

ALAMEDA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8320195 

IRAN PARAK ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8322064 

IRAN CHARAK ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8322076 

IRAN HORMUZ 25 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8422072 

IRAN HORMUZ 26 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8422084 

DORITA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8605234 

IRAN SHALAMCHEH ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8820925 

AAJ ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 8984484 

IRAN HORMUZ 12 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9005596 

IRAN KONG ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9007582 

VISTA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9010711 

VIANA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9010723 

IRAN HORMUZ 14 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9020778 

HAMD ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9036052 

SOBHAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9036935 

SATTAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9040479 

ABBA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9051624 

BEHDAD ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9051636 

PARSHAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9051648 

VALERIAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9051650 

NEGEEN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9071519 

ATTAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9074092 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 76/104 

 

PARIN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9076478 

TEEN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9101649 

GOWHAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9103087 

IRAN DALEER ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9118551 

PATRIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9137210 

NARDIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9137246 

KADOS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9137258 

ZOMOROUD ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9138044 

BRELYAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9138056 

NILDA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9165786 

JOVITA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9165798 

MANOLA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9165803 

GLADIOLUS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9165815 

ELYANA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9165827 

NEGAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9165839 

SAVIZ ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9167253 

GLOXINIA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9167265 

NESHAT ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9167277 

BEHSHAD ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9167289 

JAIRAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9167291 

IRAN SHAHED ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 9184691 

GOLSAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9193185 

ZARSAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9193197 

ARVIN  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9193202 

ARTAVAND ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 9193214 

TERESA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9209324 

GABRIELA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9209336 

SARITA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9209348 

SILVER CRAFT ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 9209350 

MAHNAM ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9213387 

TERMEH ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9213399 

MAHSAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9226944 

HAMADAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 9226956 

TARADIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9245304 

PARMIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9245316 

ZAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9260160 

ZIVAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES Vessel 9260172 

VALILI ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9270646 

SHAMIM ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9270658 

IRAN SHAHR-E-KORD ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9270684 

IRAN KASHAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9270696 

SININ ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9274941 

PARMIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9283007 

AZARGOUN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9283019 

SALIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9283021 

GOLBON ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9283033 

PARDIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9284142 

TANDIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9284154 



 
S/2015/547 

 

77/104 15-12242 

 

SHERE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9305192 

UPPERCOURT ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9305207 

TONGHAM ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9305219 

VOBSTER ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9305221 

GOLAFRUZ ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9323833 

ADALIA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9328900 

SHABGOUN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9346524 

AGATA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9346536 

BENITA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9346548 

MARISOL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9349576 

ORIANA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9349590 

MERCEDES ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9349667 

RAMONA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9349679 

GILDA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9367982 

SANIA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9367994 

SARIR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9368003 

SOMIA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9368015 

GLORY ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9369710 

ARIES ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9369722 

ABTIN 1 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9379636 

ARSHAM ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9386500 

PARSHAD ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9387786 

HAADI ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9387798 

RAAZI ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9387803 

SAEI ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9387815 

ARTMAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9405930 

BASKAR ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9405942 

BAHJAT ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9405954 

HAAMI ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9405966 

SHAADI ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9405978 

SHAYAN 1 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9420356 

TABAN 1 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9420368 

YARAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9420370 

AMIN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9422366 

AVANG ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9465746 

KIAZAND ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9465758 

BATIS ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9465760 

WARTA ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9465849 

SALIM ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9465851 

ARDAVAN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES  Vessel 9465863 

NAMI LISSOME MARINE SERVICES LLC Vessel 8419178 

GAS CAMELLIA LISSOME MARINE SERVICES LLC  Vessel 8803381 

TESS LISSOME MARINE SERVICES LLC  Vessel 8913564 

KATERINA 1 LISSOME MARINE SERVICES LLC  Vessel 9031959 

MARIA LISSOME MARINE SERVICES LLC  Vessel 9110626 

SUN OCEAN LISSOME MARINE SERVICES LLC  Vessel 9408358 

YOUNES
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8212465 

YOUSEF
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8316106 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 78/104 

 

YAGHOUB
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8316168 

TOLOU
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8318178 

VALFAJR2
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8400103 

BADR
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8407345 

BANEH
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8508462 

SARDASHT
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8517231 

MARIVAN
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 8517243 

BRIGHT
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9005235 

CARIBO
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9011246 

AURA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9013749 

BICAS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9077850 

MAHARLIKA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9079066 

NAPOLI
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9079078 

NYOS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9079080 

NAINITAL
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9079092 

NATIVE LAND
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9079107 

ATLANTIC
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9107655 

SPARROW
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9171450 

SWALLOW
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9171462 

SUPERIOR
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY Vessel 9172038 

SPOTLESS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9172040 

SABRINA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9172052 

DESTINY
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9177155 

HUMANITY
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9180281 

ORIENTAL
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9183934 

SHONA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9187629 

ABELIA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9187631 

ALERT
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9187643 

SUNDIAL
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9187655 

SILVER CLOUD
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9187667 

HUWAYZEH
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9212888 

HORIZON
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9212890 

HAPPINESS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY Vessel 9212905 

MARINA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9212917 

HALISTIC
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9212929 

DELVAR
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9218454 

DAYLAM
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9218466 

DAMAVAND
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9218478 

DENA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9218480 

DARAB
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9218492 

IRAN FAZEL
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9283746 

FIANGA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9283760 

IRAN FAHIM
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9286140 

IRAN FALAGH
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9286152 

DECESIVE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9356593 

SANCHI
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY Vessel 9356608 

MAJESTIC
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357183 

SUCCESS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357353 



 
S/2015/547 

 

79/104 15-12242 

 

SUNEAST
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357365 

SPLENDOUR
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357377 

COURAGE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357389 

HONESTY
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357391 

AMBER
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357406 

DAL LAKE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357717 

JUSTICE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9357729 

HYDRA
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9362059 

DOVE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9362061 

ZEUS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9362073 

IMICO NEKA 455
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY Vessel 9404546 

IMICO NEKA 456
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9404558 

IMICO NEKA 457
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9404560 

SUNSHINE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569205 

DOJRAN
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569619 

ATLANTIS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569621 

FORTUN
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569633 

SALALEH
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569645 

SMOOTH
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569657 

SKYLINE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569669 

INFINITY
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569671 

DEMOS
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9569683 

YANGZHOU DAYANG 

DY905
 ×

 

NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY  Vessel 9575424 

SUNRISE
 ×

 NATIONAL IRANIAN TANKER COMPANY Vessel 9615092 

ANTHEM SIQIRIYA MARITIME CORP  Vessel 8310669 

JAFFNA SIQIRIYA MARITIME CORP  Vessel 8609515 

OLYSA SIQIRIYA MARITIME CORP  Vessel 9001605 

 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 80/104 

 

ATTACHMENT 4 
 

 

ABBASI-DAVANI, Fereidoun 

ADVANCE ELECTRICAL AND INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES SL 

ALUMINAT 

ANDISHEH ZOLAL 

ARIA NIKAN MARINE INDUSTRY 

BUJAR, Farhad 

DAYENI, Mahmoud Mohammadi 

EYVAZ TECHNIC MANUFACTURING COMPANY  

FAKHRIZADEH-MAHABADI, Mohsen 

FARATECH 

FARAYAND TECHNIQUE 

FULMEN GROUP 

IMANIRAD, Arman 

IMANIRAD, Mohammad Javad 

IRAN CENTRIFUGE TECHNOLOGY COMPANY  

IRAN POOYA 

JAHAN TECH ROOYAN PARS 

JAVEDAN MEHR TOOS 

KAHVARIN, Iradj Mohammadi 

KALAYE ELECTRIC COMPANY 

KHAKI, Parviz 

MANDEGAR BASPAR KIMIYA COMPANY  

MARO SANAT COMPANY 

MODERN INDUSTRIES TECHNIQUE COMPANY  

NEDA INDUSTRIAL GROUP 

NEKA NOVIN 

PARTO SANAT CO. 

PAYA PARTOV CO. 

PENTANE CHEMISTRY INDUSTRIES 

PETRO GREEN 

PISHRO SYSTEMS RESEARCH COMPANY  

POUYA CONTROL 

PUNTI, Pere 

RAHIMYAR, Amir Hossein 

SIMATIC DEVELOPMENT CO. 

TAGHTIRAN KASHAN COMPANY 

TANIDEH, Hossein 

TARH O PALAYESH 

THE ORGANIZATION OF DEFENSIVE INNOVATION AND RESEARCH  

TOWLID ABZAR BORESHI IRAN 

WISSER, Gerhard 

YASA PART 

ZOLAL IRAN COMPANY 

 



 
S/2015/547 

 

81/104 15-12242 

 

  JCPOA Annex III - Civil Nuclear Cooperation 
 

 

 A. General 
 

1. Iran and E3/EU+3 decided to co-operate, among others, including through 

IAEA technical cooperation, where appropriate, and without prejudice to the 

existing bilateral agreements, in different areas of civil nuclear co -operation to 

be developed within the framework of this JCPOA, as detailed in this Annex. 

In this context, the Joint Commission will also support assistance to Iran, 

including through IAEA technical cooperation projects, as appropriate.  

2. All civil nuclear cooperation projects under this JCPOA will be mutually 

determined by the participating states and will be consistent with the JCPOA 

and the national laws and regulations of the participating parties.  

3. The civil nuclear and scientific cooperation projects envisioned between Iran 

and the E3/EU+3 as part of this JCPOA may be undertaken in a variety of 

formats, with a variety of potential participants. A given project undertaken by 

the E3/EU+3 will not necessarily include participation by all E3/EU+3 parties:  

3.1. bilateral or multilateral cooperation arrangements with Iran. Such 

arrangements would be mutually determined by the participating states.  

3.2. projects under the auspices of the IAEA, either through IAEA technical  

co-operation projects including through Project and Supply Agreements.  

3.3. through International Science and Technology Centres. 

 Specifically, E3/EU+3 parties will undertake, to develop nuclear co -operation 

with Iran, in particular within the following areas:  

 

 B. Reactors, Fuels and Associated Technologies, Facilities and Processes  
 

 

 4. Modern light water power and research reactors and associated equipment, 

technologies and facilities 
 

E3/EU+3 parties, as appropriate, will facilitate Iran’s acquisition of light -water 

research and power reactors, for research, development and testing, and for the 

supply of electricity and desalination, with arrangements for the assured supply of 

nuclear fuel and the removal of spent fuel as provided for in relevant contracts, for 

each reactor provided. This may include the following areas for co -operation: 

4.1. Construction as well as effective and safe operation of new light water power 

reactors and associated equipment, according to Generation III+ requirements, 

including small and medium sized nuclear reactors, including joint design and 

manufacturing, as appropriate.  

4.2. Construction of state of the art light water moderated multipurpose research 

reactors capable of testing fuel pins, assembly prototypes and structural 

materials with associated related facilities, including joint design and 

manufacturing, as appropriate. 

4.3. Supply of state-of-the-art instrumentation and control systems for the above 

research and power reactors, including joint design and manufacturing, as 

appropriate; 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 82/104 

 

4.4. Supply of nuclear simulation and calculation codes and software solutions 

with regard to the above areas, including joint development, as appropriate;  

4.5. Supply of first and second loop main equipment as well as core of the above 

research and power reactors, including joint design and manufacturing, as 

appropriate; 

4.6. On-the-job training on fuel management scenarios and reshuffling for the 

above research and power nuclear reactors;  

4.7. Joint technical review of Iran’s current nuclear reactors, upon the request by 

Iran, in order to upgrade current equipment and systems, including concer ning 

nuclear safety; 

 

 5. Arak Modernisation Project 
 

5.1. As described in Section B of Annex I, an international partnership composed 

of E3/EU+3 parties and Iran, which may subsequently be enlarged to include 

mutually determined third countries will be established, to support and facilitate 

the redesign and rebuilding of the IR-40 reactor at Arak into a modernised, not 

exceeding 20MWth, heavy-water moderated and cooled research reactor, based 

on the agreed conceptual design (as attached to Annex I).  

5.2. Iran will take the leadership role as the owner and as the project manager, and 

have responsibility for overall implementation of the Arak modernisation 

project. A Working Group composed of E3/EU+3 participants will be 

established to support and facilitate the redesigning and rebuilding of the 

reactor. An international partnership composed of Iran and the Working Group 

would implement the Arak modernisation project, with E3/EU+3 participants 

assuming responsibilities as described in Annex I. The Working Group could 

be enlarged to include other countries by consensus of the participants of the 

Working Group and Iran. E3/EU+3 participants and Iran will conclude an 

official document expressing their strong commitments to the Arak 

modernisation project in advance of Implementation Day which would provide 

an assured path forward to modernise the reactor and would define the 

responsibilities assumed by the E3/EU+3 participants, especially in the key 

areas such as redesign, design review and certification, reactor core 

manufacturing, fuel design, fabrication and supply, safety and security, spent 

fuel treatment or disposition, as well as concerning the supply of materials, 

equipment, instrumentation and control systems, and subsequently contracts 

would be concluded. The participants of the Working Group will provide 

assistance needed by Iran for redesigning and rebuilding the reactor, consistent 

with their respective national laws, in such a manner as to enable the safe and 

timely construction and commissioning of the modernised reactor. 

5.3. Iran and the Working Group will cooperate to develop the final design of the 

modernised reactor and the design of the subsidiary laboratories to be carried 

out by Iran, and review conformity with international safety standards, such 

that the reactor can be licensed by the relevant Iranian regulatory authority for 

commissioning and operation. 

5.4. Iran will continue to assume the primary responsibility for financing the 

modernisation project. Additional funding arrangements for the  project, 

including for IAEA projects supporting the Arak modernisation project, will be 



 
S/2015/547 

 

83/104 15-12242 

 

determined based on the official document and contracts to be subsequently 

concluded. 

 

 6. Nuclear Fuel 
 

6.1. E3/EU+3 parties, as appropriate, will support assistance to Iran, including 

through the IAEA, as appropriate, in meeting international qualification 

standards for nuclear fuel fabricated by Iran.  

6.2. E3/EU+3 parties will seek to cooperate regarding the supply of modern fuels, 

including, as appropriate, joint design and fabrication, the relevant licenses 

and fabrication technologies and equipment and related infrastructure, for 

current and future nuclear research and power reactors, including technical 

assistance on purification processes, forming and metallurgical activities for 

different types of nuclear fuel clads and cladding for the modernised Arak 

heavy water research reactor. 

 

 C. Research and Development (R&D) Practices 
 

7. To implement other aspects of this JCPOA and in support of a broader opening 

of scientific engagements between the E3/EU+3 and Iran, the E3/EU+3 and 

Iran will seek cooperation and scientific exchange in the field of nuclear 

science and technology: 

7.1. Accelerator-based nuclear physics and nuclear astrophysics research, and 

stable isotope production in international collaboration at the nuclear, physics, 

and technology centre at the Fordow facility. Iran will request from the 

E3/EU+3 and other interested parties specific proposals for cooperative 

international nuclear, physics, and technology projects and will host an 

international workshop to review these proposals. The goal is to realise 

international collaborative projects within a few years. The transitioning to 

stable isotope production of two cascades will be conducted in a joint 

partnership between the Russian Federation and Iran on the basis of 

arrangements to be mutually agreed upon.  

7.2. Plasma physics and nuclear fusion; 

7.3. Research reactor applications at the TRR, modernized Arak reactor, or at other 

future research reactors in Iran, such as: 

7.3.1. Training 

7.3.2. Radio-isotope production and utilization  

7.3.3. Nuclear desalination 

7.3.4. Neutron transmutation doping  

7.3.5. Neutron activation analysis  

7.3.6. Neutron capture therapy 

7.3.7. Neutron imaging and materials characterization studies using neutron 

beams 

7.4. E3/EU+3 parties and Iran could also explore co-operation in the 

following additional areas: 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 84/104 

 

7.4.1. Design, manufacture and/or assembly of in-core measuring 

instrumentation and technologies; 

7.4.2. Nuclear instrumentation and control, systems and electronics design, 

manufacture and/or assembly;  

7.4.3. Fusion technology and plasma physics and related infrastructure and 

facilitating contribution of Iran to the International Thermonuclear 

Experimental Reactor (ITER) Project and/or similar projects, including 

relevant IAEA technical cooperation projects;  

7.4.4. Neutrino astronomy; 

7.4.5. Design and manufacturing, and supply, of different types of accelerators 

and supply of related equipment including through relevant IAEA 

technical cooperation projects; 

7.4.6. Data acquisition and processing software and interface equipment;  

 D. Nuclear Safety, Safeguards and Security 
 

 8. Nuclear safety 
 

E3/EU+3 parties, and possibly other states, as appropriate, are prepared to c ooperate 

with Iran to establish a Nuclear Safety Centre in Iran, engage in workshops and 

training events in Iran to support interactions between Iranian nuclear regulatory 

authorities and those from the E3/EU+3 and elsewhere to, among other things, share 

lessons learned on establishing and maintaining regulatory independence and 

effectiveness, and training on implementing nuclear safety culture and best 

practices; facilitate exchanges and visits to nuclear regulatory authorities and 

nuclear power plants outside of Iran focusing on best practices for safe operation; 

and enhance and strengthen domestic emergency preparedness and severe accident 

management capability.  

Provide support and assistance to enable Iran to join relevant conventions on 

nuclear safety and security, e.g. through workshops or seminars furthering accession 

to such commitments. Such workshops or seminars could also take place under the 

auspices of the IAEA.  

E3/EU+3 parties, and possibly other states, as appropriate, will co -operate with Iran 

in the following areas of nuclear safety, as well as in other areas to be mutually 

agreed: 

8.1. Conclusion of bilateral/multilateral agreements with related organisations and 

research centres; 

8.2. Supply of valid codes, instruments and equipment related to nuclear safety; 

8.3. Facilitate exchange of knowledge and experience in the area of nuclear safety;  

8.4. Enhance and strengthen domestic emergency preparedness and severe accident 

management capability; 

8.5. Arrange on-the-job training and apprenticeship courses for reactor and facility 

operators, regulatory authority personnel and related supportive organizations 

in the area of nuclear safety inside and outside of Iran;  



 
S/2015/547 

 

85/104 15-12242 

 

8.6. Establish a Nuclear Safety Centre in Iran, which shall be equipped with 

necessary tools, techniques and equipment, in order to support and facilitate 

technical and professional training and exchange of lessons -learned for reactor 

and facility operators, regulatory authority personnel and related supportive 

organizations; 

 

 9. Nuclear Safeguards 
 

E3/EU+3 parties, and possibly other states, as appropriate, are prepared to cooperate 

with Iran on the effective and efficient implementation of IAEA safeguards and 

transparency measures in Iran. Co-operation in the following areas can be 

envisaged: 

9.1. Cooperation in the form of on-the-job trainings and workshops to strengthen 

nuclear material accounting and control process, human resource development, 

and quality assurance/quality control processes;  

9.2. E3/EU+3 parties, and other states, as appropriate, are prepared to cooperate 

with Iran for the effective and efficient implementation of IAEA safeguards 

and transparency measures in Iran.  

9.3. This cooperation could take the form of training and workshops to strengthen 

Iran’s safeguards regulatory authority, nuclear material accounting and control 

processes, human resource development, and quality assurance/quality control 

processes. 

 

 10. Nuclear Security 
 

E3/EU+3 parties, and possibly other states, as appropriate, are prepared to cooperate 

with Iran on the implementation of nuclear security guidelines and best practices. 

Co-operation in the following areas can be envisaged:  

10.1. Co-operation in the form of training courses and workshops to strengthen 

Iran’s ability to prevent, protect and respond to nuclear security threats to 

nuclear facilities and systems as well as to enable effective and sustainable 

nuclear security and physical protection systems;  

10.2. Co-operation through training and workshops to strengthen Iran’s ability to 

protect against, and respond to nuclear security threats, including sabotage, as 

well as to enable effective and sustainable nuclear security and physical 

protection systems. 

 

 E. Nuclear Medicine and Radioisotopes, Associated Technologies, Facilities  

and Processes 
 

11. E3/EU+3 parties, as appropriate, are prepared to cooperate with Iran to 

improve the utilization of nuclear medicine in Iran in order to enhance Iran’s 

expertise in diagnostic imaging and radiotherapy, increase the availability of 

medical radioisotopes for diagnosis and treatment of Iranian citizens, and 

facilitate Iran’s participation in the broader international scientific and nuclear 

medicine community. Such cooperation may include:  

11.1. Upgrades to the infrastructure associated with existing cyclotron facilities, 

including for medical radioisotopes production.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 86/104 

 

11.2. Facilitating Iranian acquisition of a new cyclotron, and associated radio -

pharmacy equipment, for medical radioisotopes production.  

11.3. Acquisition of state-of-the-art diagnostic imaging and radiotherapy equipment 

for existing or new nuclear medicine centers, including co -operation between 

hospitals for the treatment of individual patients.  

11.4. Cooperation on occupational and patient dosimetry procedures.  

11.5. Improved target utilization to increase radioisotope production.  

11.6. Acquisition of radioisotope sources for bracho therapy, and radiotherapy 

instrument calibration, and other medical and industrial applications.  

11.7. Supply of state-of-the art radio-medicine center and necessary laboratories.  

 

 F. Waste Management and Facility Decommissioning 
 

12. E3/EU+3 parties, as appropriate, are prepared to cooperate with Iran in the 

safe, effective, and efficient management and disposition of nuclear and 

radiological wastes derived from Iran’s nuclear fuel cycle activities and 

nuclear medicine, radioisotope production and/or consumption activities.  

13. E3/EU+3 parties, as appropriate, are prepared to cooperate with Iran in areas 

of safe, effective, and environmentally friendly best practices for facility 

decontamination and decommissioning, including co -operation on long term 

storage facilities for the repository of low and medium level waste.  

14. E3/EU+3 parties, as appropriate, are prepared to facilitate exchanges and 

visits to relevant sites and locations outside of Iran related to effective waste 

management and best practices.  

15. E3/EU+3 parties, as appropriate, will facilitate the supply of appropriate 

equipment and systems for waste management and depository faciliti es in 

Iran. 

 

 G. Other projects 
 

16. Other projects may be implemented between the relevant E3/EU+3 parties 

and Iran, as mutually determined by the participants in the JCPOA, including 

in the following areas: 

16.1. Construction of nuclear desalination and associated infrastructure in Iran;  

16.2. Development of laser technology for medical applications (e.g. for eye 

surgery); 

  



 
S/2015/547 

 

87/104 15-12242 

 

  JCPOA Annex IV – Joint Commission 
 

 

1. Establishment, Composition, and Coordinator 

1.1. The Joint Commission is established to carry out the functions assigned to 

it in the JCPOA, including its Annexes.  

1.2. The Joint Commission is comprised of representatives of Iran and the 

E3/EU+3 (China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United 

Kingdom, and the United States, with the High Representative of the 

Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy), together, the JCPOA 

participants.  

1.3. The Joint Commission may establish Working Groups in particular areas, 

as appropriate. 

1.4. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security 

Policy (‘High Representative’), or his/her designated representative will 

serve as the Coordinator of the Joint Commission.  

2. Functions 

2.1. The Joint Commission will perform the following functions:  

2.1.1. Review and approve the final design for the modernized heavy water 

research reactor and the design of the subsidiary laboratories prior to the 

commencement of construction, and review and approve the fuel design for 

the modernized heavy water research reactor as provided for in Section B 

of Annex I; 

2.1.2. Review and approve, upon request by Iran, development, acquisition, 

construction or operation of hot cells (containing a cell or interconnected 

cells), shielded cells or shielded glove boxes with dimensions beyond  

6 cubic meters in volume and specifications set out in Annex I of the 

Additional Protocol, as provided for in paragraph 21 of Annex I;  

2.1.3. Review and approve plans submitted by Iran to initiate R&D on uranium 

metal based TRR fuel, as provided for in paragraph 26 of Annex I; 

2.1.4. Review and approve, upon request by Iran, projects on new types of 

centrifuges to proceed to a prototype stage for mechanical testing, as 

provided for in paragraph 43 of Annex I;  

2.1.5. Receive information in advance about the specific projects that will be 

undertaken at Fordow, as provided for in paragraph 44 of Annex I;  

2.1.6. Receive information about the conceptual framework of stable isotope 

production at Fordow, as provided for in paragraph 46.1 of Annex I;  

2.1.7. Assess and then approve, upon request by Iran, that fuel assemblies 

manufactured in Iran and their intermediate products cannot be readily 

reconverted into UF6, based on the objective technical criteria, with the 

goal of enabling fuel to be fabricated in Iran, as provided in paragraph 59 

of Annex I; 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 88/104 

 

2.1.8. Support assistance to Iran, including through IAEA technical cooperation 

as appropriate, in meeting international qualification standards for nuclear 

fuel produced by Iran, as provided for in paragraph 59 of Annex I;  

2.1.9. Review and approve in advance, upon request by Iran, engagement by Iran, 

including through export of any enrichment or enrichment related 

equipment and technology, with any other country, or with any foreign 

entity in enrichment and enrichment related activities, including related 

research and development, as provided for in paragraph 73 in Annex I;  

2.1.10. Provide consultation, and advise on the necessary means in the context of 

access as specified in paragraph 78 of Annex I;  

2.1.11. Review and approve in advance, upon request by Iran, the design, 

development, fabrication, acquisition, or use for non -nuclear purposes of 

multi-point explosive detonation systems suitable for a nuclear explosive 

device and explosive diagnostic systems (streak cameras, framing cameras 

and flash x-ray cameras) suitable for the development of a nuclear 

explosive device, as provided for in paragraphs 82.2 and 82.3 of Annex I;  

2.1.12. Review and consult to address issues arising from the implementation of 

sanctions lifting as specified in this JCPOA and its Annex II;  

2.1.13. Review and decide on proposals for nuclear-related transfers to or 

activities with, Iran, in accordance with Section 6 of this Annex and the 

United Nations Security Council resolution endorsing this JCPOA;  

2.1.14. Review, with a view to resolving, any issue that a JCPOA participant 

believes constitutes nonperformance by another JCPOA participant of its 

commitments under the JCPOA, according to the process outlined in the 

JCPOA;  

2.1.15. Adopt or modify, as necessary, procedures to govern its activities;  

2.1.16. Consult and provide guidance on other implementation matters that may 

arise under the JCPOA.  

3. Procedures 

3.1. The Joint Commission will meet on a quarterly basis and at any time  upon 

request of a JCPOA participant to the Coordinator. The Coordinator will 

convene a meeting of the Joint Commission to be held no later than one 

week following receipt of such a request, except for consultations in 

accordance with Section Q of Annex I and any other matter that the 

Coordinator and/or a JCPOA participant deem urgent, in which case the 

meeting will be convened as soon as possible and not later than three 

calendar days from receipt of the request.  

3.2. Meetings of the Joint Commission will be held in New York, Vienna, or 

Geneva as appropriate. The host country should facilitate entry formalities 

for those attending such meetings.  

3.3. The Joint Commission may decide by consensus to invite observers to 

attend its meetings. 

3.4. Except as provided in Section 6 of this Annex which will be subject to the 

confidentiality procedure of the UN, the work of the Joint Commission is 



 
S/2015/547 

 

89/104 15-12242 

 

confidential and may be shared only among JCPOA participants and 

observers as appropriate, unless the Joint Commission decides otherwise. 

4. Decisions 

4.1. Except as stated otherwise in this Annex, decisions by the Joint 

Commission are to be made by consensus.  

4.2. Each JCPOA participant will have one vote. Decisions of the Joint 

Commission are to be taken by the Representative or the Deputy 

Representative or other such alternate as the JCPOA participant may 

designate. 

4.3. The vote of each JCPOA participant will be made known to all other 

JCPOA participants if any JCPOA participant requests a recorded vote.  

4.4. Matters before the Joint Commission pursuant to Section Q of Annex I are 

to be decided by consensus or by affirmative vote of five JCPOA 

participants. There is no quorum requirement.  

4.5. The Coordinator will not take part in decision-making on nuclear-related 

transfers and activities as set out in Section 6 of this Annex.  

5. Other 

5.1. Each JCPOA participant will be responsible for its own costs of 

participating in the Joint Commission, unless the Joint Commission decides 

otherwise. 

5.2. JCPOA participants may request that the Coordinator circulates a 

notification to the other JCPOA participants at any time. Upon such a 

request, the Coordinator will circulate such notification without delay to all 

JCPOA participants. 

6. Procurement Working Group 

6.1. With the purpose of establishing a procurement channel, the Joint 

Commission will, except as otherwise provided by the United Nations 

Security Council resolution endorsing this JCPOA, review and decide on 

proposals by states seeking to engage in:  

6.1.1. the supply, sale or transfer directly or indirectly from their territories, or by 

their nationals or using their flag vessels or aircraft to, or for the use in or 

benefit of, Iran, and whether or not originating in their territories, of all 

items, materials, equipment, goods and technology set out in 

INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1, and, if the end-use will be for Iran’s nuclear 

programme set out in this JCPOA or other non-nuclear civilian end-use, all 

items, materials, equipment, goods and technology set out in 

INFCIRC/254/Rev.9/Part 2 (or the most recent version of these documents 

as updated by the Security Council), as well as any further items if the 

relevant State determines that they could contribute to activities 

inconsistent with the JCPOA; and,  

6.1.2. the provision to Iran of any technical assistance or training, financial 

assistance, investment, brokering or other services related to the supply, 

sale, transfer, manufacture, or use of the items, materials, equipment, 

goods and technology described in subparagraph (a) above;  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 90/104 

 

6.1.3. acquisition by Iran of an interest in a commercial activity in another State 

involving uranium mining, production or use of nuclear materials and 

technologies as listed in INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1, and such 

investments in territories under their jurisdiction by Iran, its nationals, and 

entities incorporated in Iran or subject to its jurisdiction, or by individuals 

or entities acting on their behalf or direction, or by entities owned or 

controlled by them. 

6.2. The Joint Commission will discharge its responsibility for reviewing and 

making recommendations on proposals for nuclear-related transfers to or 

activities with Iran through a Procurement Working Group.  

6.3. Each E3+3 State and Iran will participate in the Procurement Working 

Group. The High Representative will serve as the Coordinator of the 

Procurement Working Group. 

6.4. Except as otherwise provided by the Joint Commission or the United 

Nations Security Council resolution endorsing this JCPOA, the 

Procurement Working Group will consider proposals according to the 

following process: 

6.4.1. Upon receipt of a proposal, including all necessary supporting information, 

by a State seeking to engage in transfers and activities referenced in 

Section 6.1, the Coordinator will forward the proposal, through appropriate 

means, without delay to the Procurement Working Group and, when the 

proposal relates to items, material, equipment, goods and technology 

intended to be used in nuclear activities authorized by the JCPOA, to the 

IAEA. The Procurement Working Group will have up to 30 working days 

to consider and decide on the proposal.  

6.4.2. “Necessary supporting information” for purposes of Section 6.4.1 means: 

(a) a description of the item; (b) the name, address, telephone number, and 

email address of the exporting entity; (c) the name, address, telephone 

number, and email address of the importing entity; (d) a statement of the 

proposed end-use and end use location, along with an end-use certification 

signed by the AEOI or the appropriate authority of Iran attesting the stated 

end-use; (e) export license number if available; (f) contract date, if 

available; and (g) details on transportation, if available; provided that if 

any of the export license number, contract date, or details on transportation 

are not available as of the time of submittal of the proposal, such 

information will be provided as soon as possible and in any event as 

condition of approval prior to shipment of the item.  

6.4.3. Each participant in the Procurement Working Group will have to 

communicate to the Coordinator, within 20 working days, whether it 

approves or rejects the proposal. The timeline for consideration may be 

extended for an additional period of 10 working days at the request of a 

participant of the Procurement Working Group.  

6.4.4. The proposal will be recommended for approval as soon as the Coordinator 

receives formal approvals from all the Procurement Working Group 

Participants or if, at the end of the 30 working day period, the Coordinator 

has received no disapprovals from any of the Procurement Working Group 

Participants. If at the end of the 30 working day period, the proposal has 



 
S/2015/547 

 

91/104 15-12242 

 

not been recommended for approval, the proposal may, at the request of at 

least two Working Group Participants within 5 working days, be referred to 

the Joint Commission, which would decide on approval of the proposal by 

consensus within 10 working days. Otherwise the proposal will be 

recommended for disapproval. The disapproving JCPOA participant(s) 

should provide relevant information regarding the disapproval to the Joint 

Commission as appropriate, taking into account the need to protect 

confidential information.  

6.4.5. The Coordinator will communicate the recommendation of the Joint 

Commission to the United Nations Security Council no later than 

35 working days, or in case of referral to the Joint Commission no later 

than 45 working days from the date the Coordinator transmitted the 

proposal and all necessary supporting information to the Procurement 

Working Group. 

6.4.6. Except as decided otherwise by consensus, the Procurement Working 

Group will meet every three weeks for reviewing the proposals. When 

some of the proposals to be reviewed relate to items, material, equipment, 

goods and technology intended to be used in nuclear activities author ized 

by the JCPOA, the IAEA may be invited to attend the meeting as an 

observer. 

6.5. All JCPOA participants will act in accordance with the procurement 

channel and will only engage in transfers and activities referenced in 

Section 6.1 following approval by the Joint Commission and the United 

Nations Security Council. Iran will not use, acquire, or seek to procure the 

items, materials, equipment, goods, and technology referred to in Section 

6.1 of this Annex for nuclear activities which are inconsistent with this 

JCPOA. 

6.6. Any JCPOA participant may refer a procurement -related activity to the 

Joint Commission under the dispute settlement mechanism if it is 

concerned that such activity is inconsistent with this JCPOA.  

6.7. Iran will provide to the IAEA access to the locations of intended use of all 

items, materials, equipment, goods and technology set out in 

INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1 (or the most recent version of these 

documents as updated by the Security Council) imported following the 

procedure under Section 6 of this Annex.  

6.8. Iran will permit the exporting state to verify the end -use of all items, 

materials, equipment, goods and technology set out in 

INFCIRC/254/Rev.9/Part 2 (or the most recent version of these documents 

as updated by the Security Council) imported following the procedure 

under Section 6 of this Annex. Upon request of the exporting state, or if the 

Joint Commission deems necessary when approving a proposal for transfer, 

the Joint Commission will provide expertise to the exporting state , 

including experts, as needed, to participate in the end -use verification. 

6.9. The Procurement Working Group will respond to requests for guidance on 

procurement activities from third parties, as communicated by the 

Coordinator. The Procurement Working Group will endeavor to respond to 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 92/104 

 

such requests for guidance within 9 working days from the date the 

Coordinator submits it to the Procurement Working Group.  

6.10. The Joint Commission will report to the United Nations Security Council 

at least every 6 months on the status of the Procurement Working Group’s 

decisions and on any implementation issues.  

7. Working Group on Implementation of Sanctions Lifting  

7.1. The Joint Commission will discharge its responsibilities for reviewing and 

consulting on issues related to the implementation of sanctions lifting as 

specified in this JCPOA assisted by a working group on the 

implementation of sanctions lifting.  

7.2. The Joint Commission participants will participate in this working group. 

The High Representative will serve as coordinator of this working group.  

7.3. If at any time following the implementation day Iran believes that any 

other nuclear-related sanction or restrictive measure including related 

designations of the E3/EU+3 is preventing the full implementation of the 

sanctions lifting as specified in this JCPOA, the JCPOA participant in 

question will consult with Iran with a view to resolving the issue. If they 

are not able to resolve the issue, Iran or any member of the E3/EU+3 may 

refer the issue to the working group. 

7.4. The participants of the working group will review and consult, with a view 

to resolving the issue within 30 working days.  

7.5. If after involvement of the working group, the issue remains unresolved, 

any participant of the JCPOA may refer it to the Joint Commission. 

 

 



 
S/2015/547 

 

93/104 15-12242 

 

  JCPOA Annex V - Implementation Plan1 
 

 

1. This Annex describes the sequence of the actions specified in Annexes I and 

II to this JCPOA. 

A. Finalisation Day  

2. Upon conclusion of the negotiations of this JCPOA, the E3/EU+3 (China, 

France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the 

United States, with the High Representative of the European Union for 

Foreign Affairs and Security Policy) and Iran will endorse this JCPOA.  

3. Promptly after the conclusion of the negotiations of this JCPOA, the 

proposed UN Security Council resolution referred to in Section 18 of this 

Annex will be submitted to the UN Security Council for adoption without 

delay. 

4. The EU will promptly endorse the UN Security Council resolution referred 

to above through Council Conclusions.  

5. Iran and the IAEA will start developing necessary arrangements to 

implement all transparency measures provided for in this JCPOA so that such 

arrangements are completed, in place, and ready for implementation on 

Implementation Day. 

B. Adoption Day 

6. Adoption Day will occur 90 days after the endorsement of this JCPOA by the 

UN Security Council through the resolution referred to above, or at an earlier 

date by mutual consent of all JCPOA participants, at which point this JCPOA 

comes into effect. 

7. Beginning on Adoption Day, JCPOA participants will make necessary 

arrangements and preparations, including legal and administrative 

preparations, for the implementation of their JCPOA commitments. 

8. Iran will officially inform the IAEA that, effective on Implementation Day, 

Iran will provisionally apply the Additional Protocol, pending its ratification 

by the Majlis (Parliament), and will fully implement the modified code 3.1.  

9. Iran will implement paragraph 66 from Section M on “Past and Present 

Issues of Concern” of Annex I. 

10. The EU and its Member States will adopt an EU Regulation, taking effect as 

of Implementation Day, terminating all provisions of the EU Regulation 

implementing all nuclear-related economic and financial EU sanctions as 

specified in Section 16.1 of this Annex, simultaneously with the IAEA -

verified implementation by Iran of agreed nuclear -related measures. 

11. The United States, acting pursuant to Presidential authorities , will issue 

waivers, to take effect upon Implementation Day, ceasing the application of 

the statutory nuclear-related sanctions as specified in Sections 17.1 to 17.2 of 

this Annex. The President will also take action to direct that all appropriate 
__________________ 

 1  This Annex is only for the purpose of determining the sequence of implementation of the 

commitments described in this JCPOA and annexes thereto and does not restrict or expand the 

scope of these commitments. 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 94/104 

 

additional measures be taken to implement the cessation of application of 

sanctions as specified in Sections 17.1 to 17.4 of this Annex, including the 

termination of Executive orders as specified in Section 17.4, and the 

licensing of activities as specified in Section 17.5. 

12. E3/EU+3 participants and Iran will begin discussions on an official 

document to be concluded in advance of Implementation Day which will 

express strong commitments of the E3/EU+3 participants to the Arak Heavy 

Water Reactor modernisation project and define the responsibilities assumed 

by the E3/EU+3 participants. 

13. The EU, its Member States and the United States will begin consultation as 

appropriate with Iran regarding relevant guidelines and publicly accessible 

statements on the details of sanctions or restrictive measures to be lifted 

under this JCPOA.  

C. Implementation Day 

14. Implementation Day will occur upon the IAEA-verified implementation by 

Iran of the nuclear-related measures described in paragraph 15 below, and, 

simultaneously, the E3/EU+3 taking the actions described in paragraphs 16 

and 17 below, and with the actions described in paragraph 18 below taking 

place at the UN level in accordance with the UN Security Council resolution.  

15. Iran will implement the nuclear-related measures as specified in Annex I:  

15.1. Paragraphs 3 and 10 from Section B on “Arak Heavy Water Research 

Reactor”; 

15.2. Paragraphs 14 and 15 from Section C on “Heavy Water Production Plant”;  

15.3. Paragraphs 27, 28, 29, 29.1 and 29.2 from Section F on “Enrichment 

Capacity”; 

15.4. Paragraphs 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 from Section G on 

“Centrifuges Research and Development”;  

15.5. Paragraphs 45, 46, 46.1, 46.2, 47.1, 48.1 from Section H on “Fordo w Fuel 

Enrichment Plant”; 

15.6. Paragraphs 52, 54 and 55 from Section I on “Other Aspects of Enrichment”;  

15.7. Paragraphs 57 and 58 from Section J on “Uranium Stocks and Fuels”;  

15.8. Paragraph 62 from Section K on “Centrifuge Manufacturing”;  

15.9. Complete the modalities and facilities-specific arrangements to allow the 

IAEA to implement all transparency measures provided for in Annex I;  

15.10. Paragraphs 64 and 65 from Section L on “Additional Protocol and Modified 

Code 3.1”; 

15.11. Paragraphs 80.1 and 80.2 from Section R on “Centrifuge Component 

Manufacturing Transparency”; and  

15.12. Within one year from Implementation Day, Iran will have completed the 

measures specified in paragraphs 47.2 and 48.2 of Section H on “Fordow 

Fuel Enrichment Plant”. 



 
S/2015/547 

 

95/104 15-12242 

 

16. The European Union will: 

16.1. Terminate the provisions of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012 and 

suspend the corresponding provisions of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP 

specified in Sections 1.1.1-1.1.3; 1.1.5-1.1.8; 1.2.1-1.2.5; 1.3.1, 1.3.2 (in so 

far as it concerns Articles 16 and 17 of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP) 

and 1.3.3; 1.4.1 and 1.4.2; 1.10.1.2 (in so far as it concerns Articles 39, 43, 

43a of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012) of Annex II. EU Member 

States will terminate or amend national implementing legislation as required.  

16.2. Amend the provisions of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012 and the 

corresponding provisions of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP specified in 

Sections 1.6.1-1.7.2 of Annex II, in connection with activities consistent with 

this JCPOA. 

16.3. Remove individuals and entities set forth in Attachment 1 to Annex II of this 

JCPOA from Annexes VIII and IX to Council Regulation (EU) 267/2012. 

Suspend the provisions of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP specified in 

Section 1.9.1 of Annex II in relation to individuals and entities set forth in 

Attachment 1 to Annex II.  

16.4. Amend the provisions of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012 and Council 

Decision 2010/413/CFSP specified in Sections 1.5.1 and 1.5.2 of Annex II to 

implement the relevant provisions of the UN Security Council resolution 

referred to above. 

17. The United States will:2  

17.1. Cease the application of the sanctions set forth in Sections 4.1 -4.5 and 4.7 of 

Annex II, with the exception of Section 211(a) of the Iran Threat Reduction 

and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (TRA);  

17.2. Cease the application of the sanctions set forth in Section 4.6 of Annex II, in 

connection with activities consistent with this JCPOA, including trade with 

individuals and entities set forth in Attachment 3 to Annex II;  

17.3. Remove individuals and entities set forth in Attachment 3 to Annex II from 

the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List), the 

Foreign Sanctions Evaders List (FSE List), and/or the Non -SDN Iran 

Sanctions Act List as set forth in Section 4.8.1 of Annex II;  

17.4. Terminate Executive Orders 13574, 13590, 13622, 13645 and Sections 5 -7 

and 15 of Executive Order 13628 as set forth in Section 4 of Annex II; and  

17.5. License activities as set forth in Section 5 of Annex II. 

18. UN Security Council  

18.1. In accordance with the UN Security Council resolution endorsing this 

JCPOA, the provisions imposed in UN Security Council resolutions 1696 

(2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), 1929 (2010) 

and 2224 (2015) will be terminated subject to re-imposition in the event of 

significant non-performance by Iran of JCPOA commitments, and specific 

__________________ 

 2  The sanctions that the United States will cease to apply are those directed towards non -U.S. 

persons, as described in Section 4 of Annex II.  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 96/104 

 

restrictions, including restrictions regarding the transfer of proliferation 

sensitive goods will apply.3  

18.2. The E3/EU+3 will take appropriate measures to implement the new UNSC 

resolution.  

D. Transition Day 

19. Transition Day will occur 8 years from Adoption Day or upon a report from 

the Director General of the IAEA to the IAEA Board of Governors and in 

parallel to the UN Security Council stating that the IAEA has reached the 

Broader Conclusion that all nuclear material in Iran remains in peaceful 

activities, whichever is earlier.  

20. The European Union will: 

20.1. Terminate the provisions of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012 and 

suspend the corresponding provisions of Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP 

specified in Sections 1.1.4, 1.3.2 (in so far as it concerns Articles 15 and 18 

of Council Decision and Articles 36 and 37 of Council Regulation) ; 1.5.1 and 

1.5.2 (in so far as it concerns Ballistic Missiles restrictions); 1.6.1 -1.9.1 of 

Annex II. 

20.2. Remove individuals and entities set forth in Attachment 2 to Annex II from 

Annexes VIII and IX to Council Regulation (EU) 267/2012.  

20.3. Remove individuals and entities set forth in Attachment 1 to Annex II from 

Annexes I and II to Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP.  

20.4. Terminate all provisions in Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP suspended on 

Implementation Day.  

21. The United States will: 

21.1. Seek such legislative action as may be appropriate to terminate, or modify to 

effectuate the termination of, the statutory sanctions set forth in Sections  

4.1-4.5, 4.7 and 4.9 of Annex II; 

21.2. Seek such legislative action as may be appropriate to terminate,  or modify to 

effectuate the termination of, the statutory sanctions described in Section 4.6 

of Annex II, in connection with activities consistent with this JCPOA, 

including trade with individuals and entities set forth in Attachments 3 and 4 

to Annex II; and 

21.3. Remove individuals and entities set out in Attachment 4 to Annex II from the 

SDN List and/or the FSE List as set forth in Section 4.8.1 of Annex II.  

22. Iran will: 

22.1. Seek, consistent with the Constitutional roles of the President and 

Parliament, ratification of the Additional Protocol.  

E. UNSCR Termination Day 

23. UNSCR (UN Security Council resolution) Termination Day will occur in 

accordance with the terms of the UN Security Council resolution endorsing 

__________________ 

 3  The provisions of this Resolution do not constitute provisions of this JCPOA.  



 
S/2015/547 

 

97/104 15-12242 

 

the JCPOA, which is 10 years from Adoption Day, provided that the 

provisions of previous resolutions have not been reinstated.  

24. On UNSCR Termination Day, the provisions and measures imposed in that 

resolution would terminate and the UN Security Council would no longer be 

seized of the Iran nuclear issue. 

25. The European Union will: 

25.1. Terminate all remaining provisions of Council Regulation (EU) No 267/2012 

and Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP.  

F. Other  

26. The terminations described in this Annex V are without prejudice to other 

JCPOA commitments that would continue beyond such termination dates.  

 

  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 98/104 

 

  Annex B: Statement 
 

 

  Statement 
 

China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, the United 

States, and the European Union have concluded with Iran a Joint Comprehensive 

Plan of Action (JCPOA) to reach a comprehensive, long -term and proper solution to 

the Iranian nuclear issue. To improve transparency and create an atmosphere 

conducive to the full implementation of the JCPOA, China, France, Germany, the 

Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the European 

Union have set forth below certain provisions. Their participation in the JCPOA is 

contingent upon the United Nations Security Council adopting a new resolution that 

would, acting under Article 41 of the UN Charter: terminate resolutions 1696 

(2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), 1929 (2010), and 2224 

(2015); require States to comply with the provisions in this statement for their 

respective durations; and facilitate, in cooperation with the Joint Commission 

established in the JCPOA, implementation of the JCPOA as provided in paragraphs 2 

and 6(a) below.  

As provided by a resolution so deciding, the following provisions would apply on 

the date on which the IAEA Director General submits a report verifying that Iran 

has taken the actions specified in paragraph 15.1-15.11 of Annex V of the JCPOA:  

1. The term “all States” as used in this document, and as incorporated in the 

resolution, means “all States without exception.” 

2. All States may participate in and permit the following activities provided that 

approval is provided in advance, on a case-by-case basis, by the Security 

Council: 

 (a) the supply, sale or transfer directly or indirectly from their 

territories, or by their nationals or using their flag vessels or aircraft to, 

or for the use in or benefit of, Iran, and whether or not originating in 

their territories, of all items, materials, equipment, goods and 

technology set out in INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1 and 

INFCIRC/254/Rev.9/Part 2 (or the most recent versions of these 

documents, as updated by the Security Council), as well as any further 

items if the State determines that they could contribute to reprocessing 

or enrichment-related or heavy water-related activities inconsistent with 

the JCPOA;  

 (b) the provision to Iran of any technical assistance or training, 

financial assistance, investment, brokering or other services, and the 

transfer of financial resources or services, related to the supply, sale, 

transfer, manufacture or use of the items, materials, equipment, goods 

and technology described in subparagraph (a) above; and  

 (c) acquisition by Iran of an interest in a commercial activity in 

another State involving uranium mining or production or use of nuclear 

materials and technology as listed in INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1, and 

such investment in territories under their jurisdiction by Iran, its 

nationals, and entities incorporated in Iran or subject to its jurisdiction, 

or by individuals or entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, 

or by entities owned or controlled by them,  



 
S/2015/547 

 

99/104 15-12242 

 

except that approval in advance by the Security Council shall not be required for the 

supply, sale, or transfer to Iran of equipment covered by B.1 of 

INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1 when such equipment is for light water reactors, low-

enriched uranium covered by A.1.2 of INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1 when it is 

incorporated in assembled nuclear fuel elements for such reactors, as well as items, 

materials, equipment, goods and technology set out in INFCIRC/254/Rev. 9/Part 2 

only when for exclusive use in light water reactors.  

For any items, materials, equipment, goods and technology that are approved by the 

Security Council pursuant to subparagraph (a) above, or are supplied, sold, or 

transferred subject to the exception stated above, States are to ensure that: (a) the 

requirements, as appropriate, of the Guidelines as set out in the referenced 

INFCIRC have been met; (b) they have obtained and are in a position to exercise 

effectively a right to verify the end-use and end-use location of any supplied item; 

(c) they notify the Security Council within ten days of the supply, sale or transfer; 

and d) in the case of supplied items, materials, equipment, goods and technology 

listed in the referenced INFCIRCs, they also notify the IAEA within ten days of the 

supply, sale or transfer. 

And except also that approval in advance by the Security Council is not required for 

the supply, sale, or transfer of items, materials, equipment, goods and technology, 

and the provision of any related technical assistance, training, financial assistance, 

investment, brokering or other services, that is directly related to the necessary 

modification of two cascades at the Fordow facility for stable isotope production, 

the export of Iran’s enriched uranium in excess of 300 kilograms in return for 

natural uranium, and the modernization of the Arak reactor based on the agreed 

conceptual design and, subsequently, on the agreed final design of such reactor, 

provided that Member States ensure that: (a) all such activities are undertaken 

strictly in accordance with the JCPOA; (b) they notify the Security Council and 

Joint Commission ten days in advance of such activities; (c) the requirements, as 

appropriate, of the Guidelines as set out in the referenced INFCIRC have been met; 

(d) they have obtained and are in a position to exercise effectively a right to verify 

the end-use and end-use location of any supplied item; and (e) in case of supplied 

items, materials, equipment, goods and technology listed in the referenced 

INFCIRCs, they also notify the IAEA within ten days of the supply, sale or 

transfers. 

This paragraph shall apply until the date ten years after JCPOA Adoption Day, as 

defined in the JCPOA, except if the IAEA submits a report confirming the Broader 

Conclusion before that date, then the requirement to obtain approval in advance by 

the Security Council shall be suspended immediately and, beginning on the date of 

this suspension, the exceptions provided for in this paragraph shall continue to 

apply and all States may participate in and permit the activities set forth in thi s 

paragraph if they notify the Security Council and the Joint Commission at least ten 

working days in advance of each such activity on a case -by-case basis.  

3. Iran is called upon not to undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles 

designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches 

using such ballistic missile technology, until the date eight years after the 

JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on which the IAEA submits a report 

confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier. 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 100/104 

 

4. All States may participate in and permit the activities described below 

provided that the Security Council decides in advance on a case -by-case basis 

to permit such activity:  

 (a) the supply, sale or transfer directly or indirectly from their territories, or 

by their nationals or using their flag vessels or aircraft to or from Iran, or 

for the use in or benefit of Iran, and whether or not originating in their 

territories, of all items, materials, equipment, goods and technology set 

out in S/2015/546 and of any items, materials, equipment, goods and 

technology that the State determines could contribute to the development 

of nuclear weapon delivery systems; and  

 (b) the provision to Iran of any technology or technical assistance or 

training, financial assistance, investment, brokering or other services, 

and the transfer of financial resources or services, or Iran’s acquisition of 

an interest in any commercial activity in another State,  related to the 

supply, sale, transfer, manufacture or use of the items, materials, 

equipment, goods and technology described in subparagraph a of this 

paragraph or related to the activities described in paragraph 3.  

provided that in the event of an approval by the Security Council: (a) the contract 

for delivery of such items or assistance include appropriate end -user guarantees; and 

(b) Iran commit not to use such items for development of nuclear weapon delivery 

systems. 

This paragraph shall apply until the date eight years after the JCPOA Adoption Day 

or until the date on which the IAEA submits a report confirming the Broader 

Conclusion, whichever is earlier.  

5. All States may participate in and permit, provided that the Security Council 

decides in advance on a case-by-case basis to approve: the supply, sale or 

transfer directly or indirectly from or through their territories, or by their 

nationals or individuals subject to their jurisdiction, or using their flag vessels 

or aircraft, and whether or not originating in their territories, to Iran, or for the 

use in or benefit of Iran, of any battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, large 

caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles 

or missile systems, as defined for the purpose of the United Nations Register 

of Conventional Arms, or related materiel, including spare parts, and the 

provision to Iran by their nationals or from or through their territories of 

technical training, financial resources or services, advice, other services or 

assistance related to the supply, sale, transfer, manufacture, maintenance, or 

use of arms and related materiel described in this subparagraph.  

 This paragraph shall apply until the date five years after the JCPOA Adoption 

Day or until the date on which the IAEA submits a report confirming the 

Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier.  

6. All States are to: 

 (a) Take the necessary measures to ensure that any activities described in 

paragraphs 2, 4, and 5 occur on their territories, or involving the ir 

nationals or individuals subject to their jurisdiction, or involving their 

flag vessels or aircraft, only pursuant to the relevant terms of those 

paragraphs, and also to prevent and prohibit any activities inconsistent 



 
S/2015/547 

 

101/104 15-12242 

 

with these provisions, until the date ten years after the JCPOA 

Adoption Day or until the date on which the IAEA submits a report 

confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier;  

 (b) Take the necessary measures to prevent, except as decided otherwise by 

the UN Security Council in advance on a case-by-case basis, the 

supply, sale, or transfer of arms or related materiel from Iran by their 

nationals or using their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not 

originating in the territory of Iran, until the date five years after the 

JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on which the IAEA submits a 

report confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier;  

 (c) For eight years after the JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on 

which the IAEA submits a report confirming the Broader Conclusion, 

whichever is earlier, continue to freeze the funds, other financial assets 

and economic resources which are on their territories at the date of 

adoption of the JCPOA, and freeze the funds, other financial assets and 

economic resources which are on their territories at any time thereafter, 

that are owned or controlled by the individuals and entities that were 

specified on the list established and maintained by the Committee 

pursuant to resolution 1737 (2006) as of the date of adoption of the 

new resolution, with the exception of those individuals and entities 

specified in Attachment hereto, or that may be de-listed by the Security 

Council, and freeze those of additional individuals and entities that 

may be designated by the Security Council as: having engaged in, 

directly associated with or provided support for Iran’s proliferation -

sensitive nuclear activities undertaken contrary to Iran’s commitments 

in the JCPOA or the development of nuclear weapon delivery systems, 

including through the involvement in procurement of prohibited items, 

goods, equipment, materials and technology specified in this statement; 

having assisted designated individuals or entities in evading or acting 

inconsistently with the JCPOA or the new resolution; having acted on 

behalf or at the direction of designated individuals or entities; or 

having been owned or controlled by designated individuals or entities, 

including through illicit means.  

 (d) For eight years from the JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on 

which the IAEA submits a report confirming the Broader Conclusion, 

whichever is earlier, ensure that any funds, financial assets or economic 

resources are prevented from being made available by their nationals or 

by any individuals or entities within their territories, to or  for the 

benefit of designated individuals or entities. These requirements shall 

not apply to funds, other financial assets or economic resources that 

have been determined by relevant States:  

 i. To be necessary for basic expenses, including payment for 

foodstuffs, rent or mortgage, medicines and medical treatment, 

taxes, insurance premiums, and public utility charges or 

exclusively for payment of reasonable professional fees and 

reimbursement of incurred expenses associated with the provision 

of legal services, or fees or service charges, in accordance with 

national laws, for routine holding or maintenance of frozen funds, 



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 102/104 

 

other financial assets and economic resources, after notification 

by the relevant States to the Security Council of the intention to 

authorize, where appropriate, access to such funds, other financial 

assets or economic resources and in the absence of a negative 

decision by the Security Council within five working days of such 

notification; 

 ii. To be necessary for extraordinary expenses, provided that such 

determination has been notified by the relevant States to the 

Security Council and has been approved by the Security Council;  

 iii. To be necessary for the civil nuclear cooperation projects 

described in Annex III of the JCPOA, provided that such 

determination has been notified by the relevant States to the 

Security Council and has been approved by the Security Council;  

 iv. To be the subject of a judicial, administrative or arbitral lien or 

judgment, in which case the funds, other financial assets and 

economic resources may be used to satisfy that lien or judgment 

provided that the lien or judgment was entered into prior to the 

date of Security Council resolution 1737 (2006), is not for the 

benefit of a person or entity subject to the measures in this 

paragraph, and has been notified by the relevant States to the 

Security Council; or 

 v. To be necessary for activities directly related to the items 

specified in paragraph 2, or to any other activity required for the 

implementation of the JCPOA, provided that such determination 

has been notified by the relevant States to the Security Council 

and has been approved by the Security Council.  

 In addition, this provision shall not prevent a designated 

individual or entity from making payment due under a contract 

entered into prior to the listing of such individual or entity, 

provided that the relevant States have determined that the contract 

is not related to any of the prohibited items, materials, equipment, 

goods, technologies, assistance, training, financial assistance, 

investment, brokering or services referred to in this statement; the 

payment is not directly or indirectly received by an individual or 

entity subject to the measures in this paragraph; and after 

notification by the relevant States to the Security Council of the 

intention to make or receive such payments or to authorize, where 

appropriate, the unfreezing of funds, other financial assets or 

economic resources for this purpose, ten working days prior to 

such authorization. 

 In addition, States may permit the addition to the accounts frozen 

pursuant to this paragraph of interest or other earnings due on 

those accounts or payments due under contracts, agreements or 

obligations that arose prior to the date on which those accounts 

were frozen, provided that such interest, other earnings and 

payments continue to be subject to these measures and are frozen;  



 
S/2015/547 

 

103/104 15-12242 

 

 (e) For five years from the JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on which 

the IAEA submits a report confirming the Broader Conclusion, 

whichever is earlier, take the necessary measures to prevent the entry 

into or transit through their territories of individuals described in 

paragraphs 6(c) above, although underlining that nothing in this 

paragraph shall oblige a State to refuse its own nationals entry into its 

territory. The measures imposed in this paragraph shall not apply when 

the Security Council determines on a case-by-case basis that such travel 

is justified on the grounds of humanitarian need, including religious 

obligations, or where the Security Council concludes that an exemption 

would otherwise further the objectives of the new resolution, including 

where Article XV of the IAEA statute is engaged;  

 (f) Take the required actions, in accordance with the resolution and 

guidance provided by the Security Council, with respect to items the 

supply, sale, transfer, or export of which is being undertaken contrary to 

the provisions contained in the JCPOA or this statement, and cooperate 

in such efforts. 

7. All States are called upon to facilitate full implementation of the JCPOA by 

inspecting, in accordance with their national authorities and legislation and 

consistent with international law, in particular the law of the sea and relevant 

international civil aviation agreements, all cargo to and from Iran, in their 

territory, including seaports and airports, if the State concerned has 

information that provides reasonable grounds to believe that the cargo contains 

items the supply, sale, transfer, or export of which is being undertaken 

contrary to the provisions contained in the JCPOA or this statement; and are 

called upon also to cooperate in inspections on the high seas with the consent 

of the flag State, if there is information that provides reasonable grounds to 

believe the vessel is carrying items the supply, sale, transfer or export of which 

is being undertaken contrary to the provisions contained in the JCPOA or this 

statement. 

China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, the United 

States and the European Union note their understanding that, upon adoption of a 

resolution endorsing the JCPOA, the Security Council would make the practical 

arrangements to undertake directly the tasks specified in this statement, including to 

monitor and take action to support the implementation by Member States of these 

provisions, review proposals described in paragraph 2 of this statement, answer 

inquiries from Member States, provide guidance, and examine information 

regarding alleged actions inconsistent with the resolution. Furthermore, these states 

propose that the Security Council ask the Secretary-General to report to the Security 

Council on the implementation of these provisions every six months.  

The duration of the provisions in this statement may be reviewed by the Joint 

Commission at the request of any participant at its biannual ministerial -level 

meetings, at which time the Joint Commission could make recommendations by 

consensus to the Security Council.  

  



S/2015/547 
 

 

15-12242 104/104 

 

  ATTACHMENT 
 

 

1. AGHA-JANI, Dawood 

2. ALAI, Amir Moayyed 

3. ASGARPOUR, Behman 

4. ASHIANI, Mohammad Fedai 

5. ASHTIANI, Abbas Rezaee 

6. ATOMIC ENERGY ORGANISATION OF IRAN (AEOI) 

7. BAKHTIAR, Haleh 

8. BEHZAD, Morteza 

9. ESFAHAN NUCLEAR FUEL RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION CENTRE 

(NFRPC) AND ESFAHAN NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY CENTRE (ENTC) 

10. FIRST EAST EXPORT BANK, P.L.C.: 

11. HOSSEINI, Seyyed Hussein 

12. IRANO HIND SHIPPING COMPANY  

13. IRISL BENELUX NV 

14. JABBER IBN HAYAN 

15. KARAJ NUCLEAR RESEARCH CENTRE  

16. KAVOSHYAR COMPANY 

17. LEILABADI, Ali Hajinia 

18. MESBAH ENERGY COMPANY 

19. MODERN INDUSTRIES TECHNIQUE COMPANY  

20. MOHAJERANI, Hamid-Reza 

21. MOHAMMADI, Jafar 

22. MONAJEMI, Ehsan 

23. NOBARI, Houshang 

24. NOVIN ENERGY COMPANY 

25. NUCLEAR RESEARCH CENTER FOR AGRICULTURE AND MEDICINE  

26. PARS TRASH COMPANY 

27. PISHGAM (PIONEER) ENERGY INDUSTRIES 

28. QANNADI, Mohammad 

29. RAHIMI, Amir 

30. RAHIQI, Javad 

31. RASHIDI, Abbas 

32. SABET, M. Javad Karimi 

33. SAFDARI, Seyed Jaber 

34. SOLEYMANI, Ghasem 

35. SOUTH SHIPPING LINE IRAN (SSL)  

36. TAMAS COMPANY 

 


