






















































Etpu


 United Nations  S/2007/315

  
 

Security Council  Distr.: General 
29 May 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-36369 (E)    300507 
*0736369* 

  Belgium, France, Italy, Slovakia, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland and United States of America: 
draft resolution 
 
 

 The Security Council, 

 Recalling all its previous relevant resolutions, in particular resolutions 1595 
(2005) of 7 April 2005, 1636 (2005) of 31 October 2005, 1644 (2005) of 
15 December 2005, 1664 (2006) of 29 March 2006 and 1748 (2007) of 27 March 
2007, 

 Reaffirming its strongest condemnation of the 14 February 2005 terrorist 
bombings as well as other attacks in Lebanon since October 2004, 

 Reiterating its call for the strict respect of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, 
unity and political independence of Lebanon under the sole and exclusive authority 
of the Government of Lebanon, 

 Recalling the letter of the Prime Minister of Lebanon to the Secretary-General 
of 13 December 2005 (S/2005/783) requesting inter alia the establishment of a 
tribunal of an international character to try all those who are found responsible for 
this terrorist crime, and the request by this Council for the Secretary-General to 
negotiate an agreement with the Government of Lebanon aimed at establishing such 
a Tribunal based on the highest international standards of criminal justice, 

 Recalling further the report of the Secretary-General on the establishment of a 
special tribunal for Lebanon on 15 November 2006 (S/2006/893) reporting on the 
conclusion of negotiations and consultations that took place between January 2006 
and September 2006 at United Nations Headquarters in New York, the Hague, and 
Beirut between the Legal Counsel of the United Nations and authorized 
representatives of the Government of Lebanon, and the letter of its President to the 
Secretary-General of 21 November 2006 (S/2006/911) reporting that the Members 
of the Security Council welcomed the conclusion of the negotiations and that they 
were satisfied with the Agreement annexed to the Report, 

 Recalling that, as set out in its letter of 21 November 2006, should voluntary 
contributions be insufficient for the Tribunal to implement its mandate, the 
Secretary-General and the Security Council shall explore alternate means of 
financing the Tribunal, 

 Recalling also that the Agreement between the United Nations and the 
Lebanese Republic on the establishment of a Special Tribunal for Lebanon was 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 2 
 

signed by the Government of Lebanon and the United Nations respectively on 
23 January and 6 February 2007, 

 Referring to the letter of the Prime Minister of Lebanon to the Secretary-
General of the United Nations (S/2007/281), which recalled that the parliamentary 
majority has expressed its support for the Tribunal, and asked that his request that 
the Special Tribunal be put into effect be presented to the Council as a matter of 
urgency,  

 Mindful of the demand of the Lebanese people that all those responsible for the 
terrorist bombing that killed former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri and 
others be identified and brought to justice, 

 Commending the Secretary-General for his continuing efforts to proceed, 
together with the Government of Lebanon, with the final steps for the conclusion of 
the Agreement as requested in the letter of its President dated 21 November 2006 
and referring in this regard to the briefing by the Legal Counsel on 2 May 2007, in 
which he noted that the establishment of the Tribunal through the Constitutional 
process is facing serious obstacles, but noting also that all parties concerned 
reaffirmed their agreement in principle to the establishment of the Tribunal, 

 Commending also the recent efforts of parties in the region to overcome these 
obstacles, 

 Willing to continue to assist Lebanon in the search for the truth and in holding 
all those involved in the terrorist attack accountable and reaffirming its 
determination to support Lebanon in its efforts to bring to justice perpetrators, 
organizers and sponsors of this and other assassinations, 

 Reaffirming its determination that this terrorist act and its implications 
constitute a threat to international peace and security, 

1. Decides, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, that:  

 (a) The provisions of the annexed document, including its attachment, on the 
establishment of a Special Tribunal for Lebanon shall enter into force on 10 June 
2007, unless the Government of Lebanon has provided notification under Article 
19 (1) of the annexed document before that date; 

 (b) If the Secretary-General reports that the Headquarters Agreement has not 
been concluded as envisioned under Article 8 of the annexed document, the location 
of the seat of the Tribunal shall be determined in consultation with the Government 
of Lebanon and be subject to the conclusion of a Headquarters Agreement between 
the United Nations and the State that hosts the Tribunal; 

 (c) If the Secretary-General reports that contributions from the Government 
of Lebanon are not sufficient to bear the expenses described in Article 5 (b) of the 
annexed document, he may accept or use voluntary contributions from States to 
cover any shortfall; 

2. Notes that, pursuant to Article 19 (2) of the annexed document, the Special 
Tribunal shall commence functioning on a date to be determined by the Secretary-
General in consultation with the Government of Lebanon, taking into account the 
progress of the work of the International Independent Investigation Commission; 



 S/2007/315
 

3 07-36369 
 

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in coordination, when appropriate, with the 
Government of Lebanon, to undertake the steps and measures necessary to establish 
the Special Tribunal in a timely manner and to report to the Council within 90 days 
and thereafter periodically on the implementation of this resolution;  

4. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter. 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 4 
 

Annex  
 

  Agreement between the United Nations and the Lebanese 
Republic on the establishment of a Special Tribunal  
for Lebanon 
 
 

 Whereas the Security Council, in its resolution 1664 (2006) of 29 March 
2006, which responded to the request of the Government of Lebanon to establish a 
tribunal of an international character to try all those who are found responsible for 
the terrorist crime which killed the former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri 
and others, recalled all its previous resolutions, in particular resolutions 1595 (2005) 
of 7 April 2005, 1636 (2005) of 31 October 2005 and 1644 (2005) of 15 December 
2005, 

 Whereas the Security Council has requested the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations (hereinafter “the Secretary-General”) “to negotiate an agreement 
with the Government of Lebanon aimed at establishing a tribunal of an international 
character based on the highest international standards of criminal justice”, taking 
into account the recommendations of the Secretary-General’s report of 21 March 
2006 (S/2006/176) and the views that have been expressed by Council members, 

 Whereas the Secretary-General and the Government of the Lebanese Republic 
(hereinafter “the Government”) have conducted negotiations for the establishment 
of a Special Tribunal for Lebanon (hereinafter “the Special Tribunal” or “the 
Tribunal”), 

 Now therefore the United Nations and the Lebanese Republic (hereinafter 
referred to jointly as the “Parties”) have agreed as follows: 
 

  Article 1 
  Establishment of the Special Tribunal 

 

1. There is hereby established a Special Tribunal for Lebanon to prosecute 
persons responsible for the attack of 14 February 2005 resulting in the death of 
former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri and in the death or injury of other 
persons. If the tribunal finds that other attacks that occurred in Lebanon between 
1 October 2004 and 12 December 2005, or any later date decided by the Parties and 
with the consent of the Security Council, are connected in accordance with the 
principles of criminal justice and are of a nature and gravity similar to the attack of 
14 February 2005, it shall also have jurisdiction over persons responsible for such 
attacks. This connection includes but is not limited to a combination of the 
following elements: criminal intent (motive), the purpose behind the attacks, the 
nature of the victims targeted, the pattern of the attacks (modus operandi) and the 
perpetrators. 

2. The Special Tribunal shall function in accordance with the Statute of the 
Special Tribunal for Lebanon. The Statute is attached to this Agreement and forms 
an integral part thereof. 
 



 S/2007/315
 

5 07-36369 
 

  Article 2 
  Composition of the Special Tribunal and appointment of judges 

 

1. The Special Tribunal shall consist of the following organs: the Chambers, the 
Prosecutor, the Registry and the Defence Office. 

2. The Chambers shall be composed of a Pre-Trial Judge, a Trial Chamber and an 
Appeals Chamber, with a second Trial Chamber to be created if, after the passage of 
at least six months from the commencement of the functioning of the Special 
Tribunal, the Secretary-General or the President of the Special Tribunal so requests. 

3. The Chambers shall be composed of no fewer than eleven independent judges 
and no more than fourteen such judges, who shall serve as follows: 

 (a) A single international judge shall serve as a Pre-Trial Judge; 

 (b) Three judges shall serve in the Trial Chamber, of whom one shall be a 
Lebanese judge and two shall be international judges; 

 (c) In the event of the creation of a second Trial Chamber, that Chamber 
shall be likewise composed in the manner contained in subparagraph (b) above; 

 (d) Five judges shall serve in the Appeals Chamber, of whom two shall be 
Lebanese judges and three shall be international judges; and 

 (e) Two alternate judges, of whom one shall be a Lebanese judge and one 
shall be an international judge. 

4. The judges of the Tribunal shall be persons of high moral character, 
impartiality and integrity, with extensive judicial experience. They shall be 
independent in the performance of their functions and shall not accept or seek 
instructions from any Government or any other source. 

5. (a) Lebanese judges shall be appointed by the Secretary-General to serve in 
the Trial Chamber or the Appeals Chamber or as an alternate judge from a list of 
twelve persons presented by the Government upon the proposal of the Lebanese 
Supreme Council of the Judiciary; 

 (b) International judges shall be appointed by the Secretary-General to serve 
as Pre-Trial Judge, a Trial Chamber Judge, an Appeals Chamber Judge or an 
alternate judge, upon nominations forwarded by States at the invitation of the 
Secretary-General, as well as by competent persons; 

 (c) The Government and the Secretary-General shall consult on the 
appointment of judges; 

 (d) The Secretary-General shall appoint judges, upon the recommendation of 
a selection panel he has established after indicating his intentions to the Security 
Council. The selection panel shall be composed of two judges, currently sitting on 
or retired from an international tribunal, and the representative of the Secretary-
General. 

6. At the request of the presiding judge of a Trial Chamber, the President of the 
Special Tribunal may, in the interest of justice, assign alternate judges to be present 
at each stage of the trial and to replace a judge if that judge is unable to continue 
sitting. 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 6 
 

7. Judges shall be appointed for a three-year period and may be eligible for 
reappointment for a further period to be determined by the Secretary-General in 
consultation with the Government. 

8. Lebanese judges appointed to serve in the Special Tribunal shall be given full 
credit for their period of service with the Tribunal on their return to the Lebanese 
national judiciaries from which they were released and shall be reintegrated at a 
level at least comparable to that of their former position. 
 

  Article 3 
  Appointment of a Prosecutor and a Deputy Prosecutor 

 

1. The Secretary-General, after consultation with the Government, shall appoint a 
Prosecutor for a three-year term. The Prosecutor may be eligible for reappointment 
for a further period to be determined by the Secretary-General in consultation with 
the Government. 

2. The Secretary-General shall appoint the Prosecutor, upon the recommendation 
of a selection panel he has established after indicating his intentions to the Security 
Council. The selection panel shall be composed of two judges, currently sitting on 
or retired from an international tribunal, and the representative of the Secretary-
General. 

3. The Government, in consultation with the Secretary-General and the 
Prosecutor, shall appoint a Lebanese Deputy Prosecutor to assist the Prosecutor in 
the conduct of the investigations and prosecutions. 

4. The Prosecutor and the Deputy Prosecutor shall be of high moral character and 
possess the highest level of professional competence and extensive experience in the 
conduct of investigations and prosecutions of criminal cases. The Prosecutor and the 
Deputy Prosecutor shall be independent in the performance of their functions and 
shall not accept or seek instructions from any Government or any other source. 

5. The Prosecutor shall be assisted by such Lebanese and international staff as 
may be required to perform the functions assigned to him or her effectively and 
efficiently. 
 

  Article 4 
  Appointment of a Registrar 

 

1. The Secretary-General shall appoint a Registrar who shall be responsible for 
the servicing of the Chambers and the Office of the Prosecutor, and for the 
recruitment and administration of all support staff. He or she shall also administer 
the financial and staff resources of the Special Tribunal. 

2. The Registrar shall be a staff member of the United Nations. He or she shall 
serve a three-year term and may be eligible for reappointment for a further period to 
be determined by the Secretary-General in consultation with the Government. 
 

  Article 5 
  Financing of the Special Tribunal 

 

1. The expenses of the Special Tribunal shall be borne in the following manner: 



 S/2007/315
 

7 07-36369 
 

 (a) Fifty-one per cent of the expenses of the Tribunal shall be borne by 
voluntary contributions from States; 

 (b) Forty-nine per cent of the expenses of the Tribunal shall be borne by the 
Government of Lebanon. 

2. It is understood that the Secretary-General will commence the process of 
establishing the Tribunal when he has sufficient contributions in hand to finance the 
establishment of the Tribunal and twelve months of its operations plus pledges equal 
to the anticipated expenses of the following 24 months of the Tribunal’s operation. 
Should voluntary contributions be insufficient for the Tribunal to implement its 
mandate, the Secretary-General and the Security Council shall explore alternate 
means of financing the Tribunal. 
 

  Article 6 
  Management Committee 

 

 The parties shall consult concerning the establishment of a Management 
Committee. 
 

  Article 7 
  Juridical capacity 

 

 The Special Tribunal shall possess the juridical capacity necessary: 

 (a) To contract; 

 (b) To acquire and dispose of movable and immovable property; 

 (c) To institute legal proceedings; 

 (d) To enter into agreements with States as may be necessary for the exercise 
of its functions and for the operation of the Tribunal. 
 

  Article 8 
  Seat of the Special Tribunal 

 

1. The Special Tribunal shall have its seat outside Lebanon. The location of the 
seat shall be determined having due regard to considerations of justice and fairness 
as well as security and administrative efficiency, including the rights of victims and 
access to witnesses, and subject to the conclusion of a headquarters agreement 
between the United Nations, the Government and the State that hosts the Tribunal. 

2. The Special Tribunal may meet away from its seat when it considers it 
necessary for the efficient exercise of its functions. 

3. An Office of the Special Tribunal for the conduct of investigations shall be 
established in Lebanon subject to the conclusion of appropriate arrangements with 
the Government. 
 

  Article 9 
  Inviolability of premises, archives and all other documents 

 

1. The Office of the Special Tribunal in Lebanon shall be inviolable. The 
competent authorities shall take appropriate action that may be necessary to ensure 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 8 
 

that the Tribunal shall not be dispossessed of all or any part of the premises of the 
Tribunal without its express consent. 

2. The property, funds and assets of the Office of the Special Tribunal in 
Lebanon, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, 
seizure, requisition, confiscation, expropriation and any other form of interference, 
whether by executive, administrative, judicial or legislative action. 

3. The archives of the Office of the Special Tribunal in Lebanon, and in general 
all documents and materials made available, belonging to or used by it, wherever 
located and by whomsoever held, shall be inviolable. 
 

  Article 10 
  Funds, assets and other property 

 

 The Office of the Special Tribunal, its funds, assets and other property in 
Lebanon, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall enjoy immunity from 
every form of legal process, except insofar as in any particular case the Tribunal has 
expressly waived its immunity. It is understood, however, that no waiver of 
immunity shall extend to any measure of execution. 
 

  Article 11 
  Privileges and immunities of the judges, the Prosecutor, the Deputy Prosecutor, 

the Registrar and the Head of the Defence Office 
 

1. The judges, the Prosecutor, the Deputy Prosecutor, the Registrar and the Head 
of the Defence Office, while in Lebanon, shall enjoy the privileges and immunities, 
exemptions and facilities accorded to diplomatic agents in accordance with the 
Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961. 

2. Privileges and immunities are accorded to the judges, the Prosecutor, the 
Deputy Prosecutor, the Registrar and the Head of the Defence Office in the interest 
of the Special Tribunal and not for the personal benefit of the individuals 
themselves. The right and the duty to waive the immunity in any case where it can 
be waived without prejudice to the purposes for which it is accorded shall lie with 
the Secretary-General, in consultation with the President of the Tribunal. 
 

  Article 12 
  Privileges and immunities of international and Lebanese personnel 

 

1. Lebanese and international personnel of the Office of the Special Tribunal, 
while in Lebanon, shall be accorded: 

 (a) Immunity from legal process in respect of words spoken or written and 
all acts performed by them in their official capacity. Such immunity shall continue 
to be accorded after termination of employment with the Office of the Special 
Tribunal; 

 (b) Exemption from taxation on salaries, allowances and emoluments paid to 
them. 

2. International personnel shall, in addition thereto, be accorded: 

 (a) Immunity from immigration restriction; 



 S/2007/315
 

9 07-36369 
 

 (b) The right to import free of duties and taxes, except for payment for 
services, their furniture and effects at the time of first taking up their official duties 
in Lebanon. 

3. The privileges and immunities are granted to the officials of the Office of the 
Special Tribunal in the interest of the Tribunal and not for their personal benefit. 
The right and the duty to waive the immunity in any case where it can be waived 
without prejudice to the purpose for which it is accorded shall lie with the Registrar 
of the Tribunal. 
 

  Article 13 
  Defence counsel 

 

1. The Government shall ensure that the counsel of a suspect or an accused who 
has been admitted as such by the Special Tribunal shall not be subjected, while in 
Lebanon, to any measure that may affect the free and independent exercise of his or 
her functions. 

2. In particular, the counsel shall be accorded: 

 (a) Immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of personal 
baggage; 

 (b) Inviolability of all documents relating to the exercise of his or her 
functions as a counsel of a suspect or accused; 

 (c) Immunity from criminal or civil jurisdiction in respect of words spoken 
or written and acts performed in his or her capacity as counsel. Such immunity shall 
continue to be accorded after termination of his or her functions as a counsel of a 
suspect or accused; 

 (d) Immunity from any immigration restrictions during his or her stay as 
well as during his or her journey to the Tribunal and back. 
 

  Article 14 
  Security, safety and protection of persons referred to in this Agreement 

 

 The Government shall take effective and adequate measures to ensure the 
appropriate security, safety and protection of personnel of the Office of the Special 
Tribunal and other persons referred to in this Agreement, while in Lebanon. It shall 
take all appropriate steps, within its capabilities, to protect the equipment and 
premises of the Office of the Special Tribunal from attack or any action that 
prevents the Tribunal from discharging its mandate. 
 

  Article 15 
  Cooperation with the Special Tribunal 

 

1. The Government shall cooperate with all organs of the Special Tribunal, in 
particular with the Prosecutor and defence counsel, at all stages of the proceedings. 
It shall facilitate access of the Prosecutor and defence counsel to sites, persons and 
relevant documents required for the investigation. 

2. The Government shall comply without undue delay with any request for 
assistance by the Special Tribunal or an order issued by the Chambers, including, 
but not limited to: 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 10 
 

 (a) Identification and location of persons; 

 (b) Service of documents; 

 (c) Arrest or detention of persons; 

 (d) Transfer of an indictee to the Tribunal. 
 

  Article 16 
  Amnesty 

 

 The Government undertakes not to grant amnesty to any person for any crime 
falling within the jurisdiction of the Special Tribunal. An amnesty already granted in 
respect of any such persons and crimes shall not be a bar to prosecution. 
 

  Article 17 
  Practical arrangements 

 

 With a view to achieving efficiency and cost-effectiveness in the operation of 
the Special Tribunal: 

 (a) Appropriate arrangements shall be made to ensure that there is a 
coordinated transition from the activities of the International Independent 
Investigation Commission, established by the Security Council in its resolution 
1595 (2005), to the activities of the Office of the Prosecutor; 

 (b) Judges of the Trial Chamber and the Appeals Chamber shall take office 
on a date to be determined by the Secretary-General in consultation with the 
President of the Special Tribunal. Pending such a determination, judges of both 
Chambers shall be convened on an ad hoc basis to deal with organizational matters 
and serving, when required, to perform their duties. 
 

  Article 18 
  Settlement of disputes 

 

 Any dispute between the Parties concerning the interpretation or application of 
this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation or by any other mutually agreed upon 
mode of settlement. 
 

  Article 19 
  Entry into force and commencement of the functioning of the Special Tribunal 

 

1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the day after the Government has 
notified the United Nations in writing that the legal requirements for entry into force 
have been complied with. 

2. The Special Tribunal shall commence functioning on a date to be determined 
by the Secretary-General in consultation with the Government, taking into account 
the progress of the work of the International Independent Investigation Commission. 
 

  Article 20 
  Amendment 

 

 This Agreement may be amended by written agreement between the Parties. 
 



 S/2007/315
 

11 07-36369 
 

  Article 21 
  Duration of the Agreement 

 

1. This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of three years from the date 
of the commencement of the functioning of the Special Tribunal. 

2. Three years after the commencement of the functioning of the Special Tribunal 
the Parties shall, in consultation with the Security Council, review the progress of 
the work of the Special Tribunal. If at the end of this period of three years the 
activities of the Tribunal have not been completed, the Agreement shall be extended 
to allow the Tribunal to complete its work, for a further period(s) to be determined 
by the Secretary-General in consultation with the Government and the Security 
Council. 

3. The provisions relating to the inviolability of the funds, assets, archives and 
documents of the Office of the Special Tribunal in Lebanon, the privileges and 
immunities of those referred to in this Agreement, as well as provisions relating to 
defence counsel and the protection of victims and witnesses, shall survive 
termination of this Agreement. 

 In witness whereof, the following duly authorized representatives of the 
United Nations and of the Lebanese Republic have signed this Agreement. 

Done at __________ on __________ 2006, in three originals in the Arabic, French 
and English languages, all texts being equally authentic. 
 
 

For the United Nations:     For the Lebanese Republic: 

______________      _______________ 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 12 
 

  Attachment 
  Statute of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon 

 
 

 Having been established by an Agreement between the United Nations and the 
Lebanese Republic (hereinafter “the Agreement”) pursuant to Security Council 
resolution 1664 (2006) of 29 March 2006, which responded to the request of the 
Government of Lebanon to establish a tribunal of an international character to try all 
those who are found responsible for the terrorist crime which killed the former 
Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri and others, the Special Tribunal for Lebanon 
(hereinafter “the Special Tribunal”) shall function in accordance with the provisions 
of this Statute. 
 
 

  Section I 
  Jurisdiction and applicable law 

 
 

  Article 1 
  Jurisdiction of the Special Tribunal 

 

 The Special Tribunal shall have jurisdiction over persons responsible for the 
attack of 14 February 2005 resulting in the death of former Lebanese Prime Minister 
Rafiq Hariri and in the death or injury of other persons. If the Tribunal finds that 
other attacks that occurred in Lebanon between 1 October 2004 and 12 December 
2005, or any later date decided by the Parties and with the consent of the Security 
Council, are connected in accordance with the principles of criminal justice and are 
of a nature and gravity similar to the attack of 14 February 2005, it shall also have 
jurisdiction over persons responsible for such attacks. This connection includes but 
is not limited to a combination of the following elements: criminal intent (motive), 
the purpose behind the attacks, the nature of the victims targeted, the pattern of the 
attacks (modus operandi) and the perpetrators.  
 

  Article 2 
  Applicable criminal law 

 

 The following shall be applicable to the prosecution and punishment of the 
crimes referred to in article 1, subject to the provisions of this Statute: 

 (a) The provisions of the Lebanese Criminal Code relating to the prosecution 
and punishment of acts of terrorism, crimes and offences against life and personal 
integrity, illicit associations and failure to report crimes and offences, including the 
rules regarding the material elements of a crime, criminal participation and 
conspiracy; and 

 (b) Articles 6 and 7 of the Lebanese law of 11 January 1958 on “Increasing 
the penalties for sedition, civil war and interfaith struggle”. 
 

  Article 3 
  Individual criminal responsibility 

 

1. A person shall be individually responsible for crimes within the jurisdiction of 
the Special Tribunal if that person: 



 S/2007/315
 

13 07-36369 
 

 (a) Committed, participated as accomplice, organized or directed others to 
commit the crime set forth in article 2 of this Statute; or 

 (b) Contributed in any other way to the commission of the crime set forth in 
article 2 of this Statute by a group of persons acting with a common purpose, where 
such contribution is intentional and is either made with the aim of furthering the 
general criminal activity or purpose of the group or in the knowledge of the 
intention of the group to commit the crime. 

2. With respect to superior and subordinate relationships, a superior shall be 
criminally responsible for any of the crimes set forth in article 2 of this Statute 
committed by subordinates under his or her effective authority and control, as a 
result of his or her failure to exercise control properly over such subordinates, 
where: 

 (a) The superior either knew, or consciously disregarded information that 
clearly indicated that the subordinates were committing or about to commit such 
crimes; 

 (b) The crimes concerned activities that were within the effective 
responsibility and control of the superior; and 

 (c) The superior failed to take all necessary and reasonable measures within 
his or her power to prevent or repress their commission or to submit the matter to 
the competent authorities for investigation and prosecution. 

3. The fact that the person acted pursuant to an order of a superior shall not 
relieve him or her of criminal responsibility, but may be considered in mitigation of 
punishment if the Special Tribunal determines that justice so requires. 
 

  Article 4 
  Concurrent jurisdiction 

 

1. The Special Tribunal and the national courts of Lebanon shall have concurrent 
jurisdiction. Within its jurisdiction, the Tribunal shall have primacy over the 
national courts of Lebanon. 

2. Upon the assumption of office of the Prosecutor, as determined by the 
Secretary-General, and no later than two months thereafter, the Special Tribunal 
shall request the national judicial authority seized with the case of the attack against 
Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri and others to defer to its competence. The Lebanese 
judicial authority shall refer to the Tribunal the results of the investigation and a 
copy of the court’s records, if any. Persons detained in connection with the 
investigation shall be transferred to the custody of the Tribunal. 

3. (a) At the request of the Special Tribunal, the national judicial authority 
seized with any of the other crimes committed between 1 October 2004 and 
12 December 2005, or a later date decided pursuant to article 1, shall refer to the 
Tribunal the results of the investigation and a copy of the court’s records, if any, for 
review by the Prosecutor; 

 (b) At the further request of the Tribunal, the national authority in question 
shall defer to the competence of the Tribunal. It shall refer to the Tribunal the results 
of the investigation and a copy of the court’s records, if any, and persons detained in 
connection with any such case shall be transferred to the custody of the Tribunal; 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 14 
 

 (c) The national judicial authorities shall regularly inform the Tribunal of the 
progress of their investigation. At any stage of the proceedings, the Tribunal may 
formally request a national judicial authority to defer to its competence. 
 

  Article 5 
  Non bis in idem 

 

1. No person shall be tried before a national court of Lebanon for acts for which 
he or she has already been tried by the Special Tribunal. 

2. A person who has been tried by a national court may be subsequently tried by 
the Special Tribunal if the national court proceedings were not impartial or 
independent, were designed to shield the accused from criminal responsibility for 
crimes within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal or the case was not diligently 
prosecuted.  

3. In considering the penalty to be imposed on a person convicted of a crime 
under this Statute, the Special Tribunal shall take into account the extent to which 
any penalty imposed by a national court on the same person for the same act has 
already been served. 
 

  Article 6 
  Amnesty 

 

 An amnesty granted to any person for any crime falling within the jurisdiction 
of the Special Tribunal shall not be a bar to prosecution. 
 
 

  Section II 
  Organization of the Special Tribunal 

 
 

  Article 7 
  Organs of the Special Tribunal 

 

 The Special Tribunal shall consist of the following organs:  

 (a) The Chambers, comprising a Pre-Trial Judge, a Trial Chamber and an 
Appeals Chamber;  

 (b) The Prosecutor;  

 (c) The Registry; and 

 (d) The Defence Office.  
 

  Article 8 
  Composition of the Chambers 

 

1. The Chambers shall be composed as follows: 

 (a) One international Pre-Trial Judge; 

 (b) Three judges who shall serve in the Trial Chamber, of whom one shall be 
a Lebanese judge and two shall be international judges; 

 (c) Five judges who shall serve in the Appeals Chamber, of whom two shall 
be Lebanese judges and three shall be international judges; 



 S/2007/315
 

15 07-36369 
 

 (d) Two alternate judges, one of whom shall be a Lebanese judge and one 
shall be an international judge.  

2. The judges of the Appeals Chamber and the judges of the Trial Chamber, 
respectively, shall elect a presiding judge who shall conduct the proceedings in the 
Chamber to which he or she was elected. The presiding judge of the Appeals 
Chamber shall be the President of the Special Tribunal. 

3. At the request of the presiding judge of the Trial Chamber, the President of the 
Special Tribunal may, in the interest of justice, assign the alternate judges to be 
present at each stage of the trial and to replace a judge if that judge is unable to 
continue sitting. 
 

  Article 9 
  Qualification and appointment of judges 

 

1. The judges shall be persons of high moral character, impartiality and integrity, 
with extensive judicial experience. They shall be independent in the performance of 
their functions and shall not accept or seek instructions from any Government or 
any other source.  

2. In the overall composition of the Chambers, due account shall be taken of the 
established competence of the judges in criminal law and procedure and 
international law. 

3. The judges shall be appointed by the Secretary-General, as set forth in article 2 
of the Agreement, for a three-year period and may be eligible for reappointment for 
a further period to be determined by the Secretary-General in consultation with the 
Government. 
 

  Article 10 
  Powers of the President of the Special Tribunal 

 

1. The President of the Special Tribunal, in addition to his or her judicial 
functions, shall represent the Tribunal and be responsible for its effective 
functioning and the good administration of justice.  

2. The President of the Special Tribunal shall submit an annual report on the 
operation and activities of the Tribunal to the Secretary-General and to the 
Government of Lebanon. 
 

  Article 11 
  The Prosecutor 

 

1. The Prosecutor shall be responsible for the investigation and prosecution of 
persons responsible for the crimes falling within the jurisdiction of the Special 
Tribunal. In the interest of proper administration of justice, he or she may decide to 
charge jointly persons accused of the same or different crimes committed in the 
course of the same transaction. 

2. The Prosecutor shall act independently as a separate organ of the Special 
Tribunal. He or she shall not seek or receive instructions from any Government or 
from any other source. 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 16 
 

3. The Prosecutor shall be appointed, as set forth in article 3 of the Agreement, 
by the Secretary-General for a three-year term and may be eligible for 
reappointment for a further period to be determined by the Secretary-General in 
consultation with the Government. He or she shall be of high moral character and 
possess the highest level of professional competence, and have extensive experience 
in the conduct of investigations and prosecutions of criminal cases. 

4. The Prosecutor shall be assisted by a Lebanese Deputy Prosecutor and by such 
other Lebanese and international staff as may be required to perform the functions 
assigned to him or her effectively and efficiently. 

5. The Office of the Prosecutor shall have the power to question suspects, victims 
and witnesses, to collect evidence and to conduct on-site investigations. In carrying 
out these tasks, the Prosecutor shall, as appropriate, be assisted by the Lebanese 
authorities concerned. 
 

  Article 12 
  The Registry 

 

1. Under the authority of the President of the Special Tribunal, the Registry shall 
be responsible for the administration and servicing of the Tribunal. 

2. The Registry shall consist of a Registrar and such other staff as may be 
required. 

3. The Registrar shall be appointed by the Secretary-General and shall be a staff 
member of the United Nations. He or she shall serve for a three-year term and may 
be eligible for reappointment for a further period to be determined by the Secretary-
General in consultation with the Government. 

4. The Registrar shall set up a Victims and Witnesses Unit within the Registry. 
This Unit shall provide, in consultation with the Office of the Prosecutor, measures 
to protect the safety, physical and psychological well-being, dignity and privacy of 
victims and witnesses, and such other appropriate assistance for witnesses who 
appear before the Special Tribunal and others who are at risk on account of 
testimony given by such witnesses. 
 

  Article 13 
  The Defence Office 

 

1. The Secretary-General, in consultation with the President of the Special 
Tribunal, shall appoint an independent Head of the Defence Office, who shall be 
responsible for the appointment of the Office staff and the drawing up of a list of 
defence counsel. 

2. The Defence Office, which may also include one or more public defenders, 
shall protect the rights of the defence, provide support and assistance to defence 
counsel and to the persons entitled to legal assistance, including, where appropriate, 
legal research, collection of evidence and advice, and appearing before the Pre-Trial 
Judge or a Chamber in respect of specific issues. 
 



 S/2007/315
 

17 07-36369 
 

  Article 14 
  Official and working languages 

 

 The official languages of the Special Tribunal shall be Arabic, French and 
English. In any given case proceedings, the Pre-Trial Judge or a Chamber may 
decide that one or two of the languages may be used as working languages as 
appropriate. 
 
 

  Section III 
  Rights of defendants and victims 

 
 

  Article 15 
  Rights of suspects during investigation 

 

 A suspect who is to be questioned by the Prosecutor shall not be compelled to 
incriminate himself or herself or to confess guilt. He or she shall have the following 
rights of which he or she shall be informed by the Prosecutor prior to questioning, in 
a language he or she speaks and understands: 

 (a) The right to be informed that there are grounds to believe that he or she 
has committed a crime within the jurisdiction of the Special Tribunal; 

 (b) The right to remain silent, without such silence being considered in the 
determination of guilt or innocence, and to be cautioned that any statement he or she 
makes shall be recorded and may be used in evidence; 

 (c) The right to have legal assistance of his or her own choosing, including 
the right to have legal assistance provided by the Defence Office where the interests 
of justice so require and where the suspect does not have sufficient means to pay for 
it; 

 (d) The right to have the free assistance of an interpreter if he or she cannot 
understand or speak the language used for questioning; 

 (e) The right to be questioned in the presence of counsel unless the person 
has voluntarily waived his or her right to counsel.  
 

  Article 16 
  Rights of the accused 

 

1. All accused shall be equal before the Special Tribunal. 

2. The accused shall be entitled to a fair and public hearing, subject to measures 
ordered by the Special Tribunal for the protection of victims and witnesses. 

3. (a) The accused shall be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to 
the provisions of this Statute; 

 (b) The onus is on the Prosecutor to prove the guilt of the accused; 

 (c) In order to convict the accused, the relevant Chamber must be convinced 
of the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.  

4. In the determination of any charge against the accused pursuant to this Statute, 
he or she shall be entitled to the following minimum guarantees, in full equality: 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 18 
 

 (a) To be informed promptly and in detail in a language which he or she 
understands of the nature and cause of the charge against him or her;  

 (b) To have adequate time and facilities for the preparation of his or her 
defence and to communicate without hindrance with counsel of his or her own 
choosing;  

 (c) To be tried without undue delay;  

 (d) Subject to the provisions of article 22, to be tried in his or her presence, 
and to defend himself or herself in person or through legal assistance of his or her 
own choosing; to be informed, if he or she does not have legal assistance, of this 
right; and to have legal assistance assigned to him or her, in any case where the 
interests of justice so require and without payment by him or her in any such case if 
he or she does not have sufficient means to pay for it; 

 (e) To examine, or have examined, the witnesses against him or her and to 
obtain the attendance and examination of witnesses on his or her behalf under the 
same conditions as witnesses against him or her;  

 (f) To examine all evidence to be used against him or her during the trial in 
accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Evidence of the Special Tribunal; 

 (g) To have the free assistance of an interpreter if he or she cannot 
understand or speak the language used in the Special Tribunal;  

 (h) Not to be compelled to testify against himself or herself or to confess 
guilt.  

5. The accused may make statements in court at any stage of the proceedings, 
provided such statements are relevant to the case at issue. The Chambers shall 
decide on the probative value, if any, of such statements.  
 

  Article 17 
  Rights of victims 

 

 Where the personal interests of the victims are affected, the Special Tribunal 
shall permit their views and concerns to be presented and considered at stages of the 
proceedings determined to be appropriate by the Pre-Trial Judge or the Chamber and 
in a manner that is not prejudicial to or inconsistent with the rights of the accused 
and a fair and impartial trial. Such views and concerns may be presented by the 
legal representatives of the victims where the Pre-Trial Judge or the Chamber 
considers it appropriate. 
 
 

  Section IV 
  Conduct of proceedings 

 
 

  Article 18 
  Pre-Trial proceedings 

 

1. The Pre-Trial Judge shall review the indictment. If satisfied that a prima facie 
case has been established by the Prosecutor, he or she shall confirm the indictment. 
If he or she is not so satisfied, the indictment shall be dismissed. 



 S/2007/315
 

19 07-36369 
 

2. The Pre-Trial Judge may, at the request of the Prosecutor, issue such orders 
and warrants for the arrest or transfer of persons, and any other orders as may be 
required for the conduct of the investigation and for the preparation of a fair and 
expeditious trial. 
 

  Article 19 
  Evidence collected prior to the establishment of the Special Tribunal 

 

 Evidence collected with regard to cases subject to the consideration of the 
Special Tribunal, prior to the establishment of the Tribunal, by the national 
authorities of Lebanon or by the International Independent Investigation 
Commission in accordance with its mandate as set out in Security Council 
resolution 1595 (2005) and subsequent resolutions, shall be received by the 
Tribunal. Its admissibility shall be decided by the Chambers pursuant to 
international standards on collection of evidence. The weight to be given to any 
such evidence shall be determined by the Chambers.  
 

  Article 20 
  Commencement and conduct of trial proceedings 

 

1. The Trial Chamber shall read the indictment to the accused, satisfy itself that 
the rights of the accused are respected, confirm that the accused understands the 
indictment and instruct the accused to enter a plea. 

2. Unless otherwise decided by the Trial Chamber in the interests of justice, 
examination of witnesses shall commence with questions posed by the presiding 
judge, followed by questions posed by other members of the Trial Chamber, the 
Prosecutor and the Defence. 

3. Upon request or proprio motu, the Trial Chamber may at any stage of the trial 
decide to call additional witnesses and/or order the production of additional 
evidence.  

4. The hearings shall be public unless the Trial Chamber decides to hold the 
proceedings in camera in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Evidence. 
 

  Article 21 
  Powers of the Chambers 

 

1. The Special Tribunal shall confine the trial, appellate and review proceedings 
strictly to an expeditious hearing of the issues raised by the charges, or the grounds 
for appeal or review, respectively. It shall take strict measures to prevent any action 
that may cause unreasonable delay. 

2. A Chamber may admit any relevant evidence that it deems to have probative 
value and exclude such evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed 
by the need to ensure a fair trial. 

3. A Chamber may receive the evidence of a witness orally or, where the interests 
of justice allow, in written form. 

4. In cases not otherwise provided for in the Rules of Procedure and Evidence, a 
Chamber shall apply rules of evidence that will best favour a fair determination of 
the matter before it and are consonant with the spirit of the Statute and the general 
principles of law. 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 20 
 

  Article 22 
  Trials in absentia 

 

1. The Special Tribunal shall conduct trial proceedings in the absence of the 
accused, if he or she: 

 (a) Has expressly and in writing waived his or her right to be present; 

 (b) Has not been handed over to the Tribunal by the State authorities 
concerned; 

 (c) Has absconded or otherwise cannot be found and all reasonable steps 
have been taken to secure his or her appearance before the Tribunal and to inform 
him or her of the charges confirmed by the Pre-Trial Judge. 

2. When hearings are conducted in the absence of the accused, the Special 
Tribunal shall ensure that: 

 (a) The accused has been notified, or served with the indictment, or notice 
has otherwise been given of the indictment through publication in the media or 
communication to the State of residence or nationality;  

 (b) The accused has designated a defence counsel of his or her own 
choosing, to be remunerated either by the accused or, if the accused is proved to be 
indigent, by the Tribunal;  

 (c) Whenever the accused refuses or fails to appoint a defence counsel, such 
counsel has been assigned by the Defence Office of the Tribunal with a view to 
ensuring full representation of the interests and rights of the accused. 

3. In case of conviction in absentia, the accused, if he or she had not designated a 
defence counsel of his or her choosing, shall have the right to be retried in his or her 
presence before the Special Tribunal, unless he or she accepts the judgement.  
 

  Article 23 
  Judgement 

 

 The judgement shall be rendered by a majority of the judges of the Trial 
Chamber or of the Appeals Chamber and shall be delivered in public. It shall be 
accompanied by a reasoned opinion in writing, to which any separate or dissenting 
opinions shall be appended. 
 

  Article 24 
  Penalties 

 

1. The Trial Chamber shall impose upon a convicted person imprisonment for life 
or for a specified number of years. In determining the terms of imprisonment for the 
crimes provided for in this Statute, the Trial Chamber shall, as appropriate, have 
recourse to international practice regarding prison sentences and to the practice of 
the national courts of Lebanon. 

2. In imposing sentence, the Trial Chamber should take into account such factors 
as the gravity of the offence and the individual circumstances of the convicted 
person. 

  



 S/2007/315
 

21 07-36369 
 

  Article 25 
  Compensation to victims 

 

1. The Special Tribunal may identify victims who have suffered harm as a result 
of the commission of crimes by an accused convicted by the Tribunal. 

2. The Registrar shall transmit to the competent authorities of the State concerned 
the judgement finding the accused guilty of a crime that has caused harm to a 
victim.  

3. Based on the decision of the Special Tribunal and pursuant to the relevant 
national legislation, a victim or persons claiming through the victim, whether or not 
such victim had been identified as such by the Tribunal under paragraph 1 of this 
article, may bring an action in a national court or other competent body to obtain 
compensation. 

4. For the purposes of a claim made under paragraph 3 of this article, the 
judgement of the Special Tribunal shall be final and binding as to the criminal 
responsibility of the convicted person.  
 

  Article 26 
  Appellate proceedings 

 

1. The Appeals Chamber shall hear appeals from persons convicted by the Trial 
Chamber or from the Prosecutor on the following grounds: 

 (a) An error on a question of law invalidating the decision;  

 (b) An error of fact that has occasioned a miscarriage of justice.  

2. The Appeals Chamber may affirm, reverse or revise the decisions taken by the 
Trial Chamber. 
 

  Article 27 
  Review proceedings 

 

1. Where a new fact has been discovered that was not known at the time of the 
proceedings before the Trial Chamber or the Appeals Chamber and that could have 
been a decisive factor in reaching the decision, the convicted person or the 
Prosecutor may submit an application for review of the judgement. 

2. An application for review shall be submitted to the Appeals Chamber. The 
Appeals Chamber may reject the application if it considers it to be unfounded. If it 
determines that the application is meritorious, it may, as appropriate: 

 (a) Reconvene the Trial Chamber;  

 (b) Retain jurisdiction over the matter.  
 

  Article 28  
  Rules of Procedure and Evidence 

 

1. The judges of the Special Tribunal shall, as soon as practicable after taking 
office, adopt Rules of Procedure and Evidence for the conduct of the pre-trial, trial 
and appellate proceedings, the admission of evidence, the participation of victims, 
the protection of victims and witnesses and other appropriate matters and may 
amend them, as appropriate. 



S/2007/315  
 

07-36369 22 
 

2. In so doing, the judges shall be guided, as appropriate, by the Lebanese Code 
of Criminal Procedure, as well as by other reference materials reflecting the highest 
standards of international criminal procedure, with a view to ensuring a fair and 
expeditious trial. 
 

  Article 29 
  Enforcement of sentences 

 

1. Imprisonment shall be served in a State designated by the President of the 
Special Tribunal from a list of States that have indicated their willingness to accept 
persons convicted by the Tribunal.  

2. Conditions of imprisonment shall be governed by the law of the State of 
enforcement subject to the supervision of the Special Tribunal. The State of 
enforcement shall be bound by the duration of the sentence, subject to article 30 of 
this Statute. 
 

  Article 30 
  Pardon or commutation of sentences 

 

 If, pursuant to the applicable law of the State in which the convicted person is 
imprisoned, he or she is eligible for pardon or commutation of sentence, the State 
concerned shall notify the Special Tribunal accordingly. There shall only be pardon 
or commutation of sentence if the President of the Tribunal, in consultation with the 
judges, so decides on the basis of the interests of justice and the general principles 
of law. 

 

 


