













































Etpu


 United Nations  S/2015/117 

  

Security Council  Distr.: General 
17 February 2015 

 

Original: English 

 

 

15-02150 (E)    170215 

*1502150*  
 

  Russian Federation: draft resolution 
 

 

 The Security Council, 

 Recalling the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United 

Nations and reaffirming its full respect for the sovereignty, independence and 

territorial integrity of Ukraine, 

 Expressing its grave concern at the tragic events and violence in eastern 

regions of Ukraine, 

 Reaffirming its Resolution 2166 (2014), 

 Firmly convinced that the resolution of the situation in eastern regions of 

Ukraine can only be achieved through a peaceful settlement to the current crisis,  

 1. Endorses the “Package of measures for the Implementation of the Minsk 

Agreements”, adopted and signed in Minsk on 12 February 2015 (Annex I);  

 2. Welcomes the Declaration by the President of the Russian Federation, the 

President of Ukraine, the President of the French Republic and the Chancellor of the 

Federal Republic of Germany in support of the “Package of measures for the 

Implementation of the Minsk Agreements”, adopted on 12 February 2015 in Minsk 

(Annex II), and their continuing commitment therein to the implementation of the 

Minsk Agreements; 

 3. Calls on all parties to fully implement the “Package of measures”, 

including a comprehensive ceasefire as provided for therein;  

 4. Decides to remain seized of the matter. 



S/2015/117 
 

 

15-02150 2/5 

 

Annex I 
 

  Package of Measures for the Implementation of the 

Minsk Agreements 
 

 

Minsk, 12 February 2015 

 

1. Immediate and comprehensive ceasefire in certain areas of the Donetsk and 

Luhansk regions of Ukraine and its strict implementation as of 15 February 2015, 

12 a.m. local time. 

2. Withdrawal of all heavy weapons by both sides by equal distances in order to 

create a security zone of at least 50 km wide from each other for the artillery 

systems of calibre of 100 and more, a security zone of 70 km wide for MLRS and 

140 km wide for MLRS “Tornado-S”, Uragan, Smerch and Tactical Missile Systems 

(Tochka, Tochka U): 

 – for the Ukrainian troops: from the de facto line of contact;  

 – for the armed formations from certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk 

regions of Ukraine: from the line of contact according to the Minsk 

Memorandum of Sept. 19th, 2014; 

The withdrawal of the heavy weapons as specified above is to start on day 2 of the 

ceasefire at the latest and be completed within 14 days.  

The process shall be facilitated by the OSCE and supported by the Trilateral Contact 

Group. 

3. Ensure effective monitoring and verification of the ceasefire regime and the 

withdrawal of heavy weapons by the OSCE from day 1 of the withdrawal, using all 

technical equipment necessary, including satellites, drones, radar equipment, etc.  

4. Launch a dialogue, on day 1 of the withdrawal, on modalities of local elections 

in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and the Law of Ukraine “On interim local 

self-government order in certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions” as well 

as on the future regime of these areas based on this law.  

Adopt promptly, by no later than 30 days after the date of signing of this document 

a Resolution of the Parliament of Ukraine specifying the area enjoying a special 

regime, under the Law of Ukraine “On interim self-government order in certain 

areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions”, based on the line of the Minsk 

Memorandum of September 19, 2014. 

5. Ensure pardon and amnesty by enacting the law prohibiting the prosecution 

and punishment of persons in connection with the events that took place in certain 

areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.  

6. Ensure release and exchange of all hostages and unlawfully detained persons, 

based on the principle “all for all”. This process is to be finished on the day 5 after 

the withdrawal at the latest. 

7. Ensure safe access, delivery, storage, and distribution of humanitarian 

assistance to those in need, on the basis of an international mechanism.  

8. Definition of modalities of full resumption of socioeconomic ties, including 

social transfers such as pension payments and other payments (incomes and 



 
S/2015/117 

 

3/5 15-02150 

 

revenues, timely payments of all utility bills, reinstating taxation within the legal 

framework of Ukraine). 

To this end, Ukraine shall reinstate control of the segment of its banking system in 

the conflict-affected areas and possibly an international mechanism to facilitate such 

transfers shall be established. 

9. Reinstatement of full control of the state border by the government of Ukraine 

throughout the conflict area, starting on day 1 after the local elections and ending 

after the comprehensive political settlement (local elections in certain areas of the 

Donetsk and Luhansk regions on the basis of the Law of Ukraine and constitutional 

reform) to be finalized by the end of 2015, provided that paragraph 11 has been 

implemented in consultation with and upon agreement by representatives of certain 

areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in the framework of the Trilateral Contact 

Group. 

10. Withdrawal of all foreign armed formations, military equipment, as well as 

mercenaries from the territory of Ukraine under monitoring of the OSCE. 

Disarmament of all illegal groups. 

11. Carrying out constitutional reform in Ukraine with a new constitution entering 

into force by the end of 2015 providing for decentralization as a key element 

(including a reference to the specificities of certain areas in the Donetsk and 

Luhansk regions, agreed with the representatives of these areas), as well as adopting 

permanent legislation on the special status of certain areas of the Donetsk and 

Luhansk regions in line with measures as set out in the footnote until the end of 

2015. [Note] 

12. Based on the Law of Ukraine “On interim local self-government order in 

certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions”, questions related to local 

elections will be discussed and agreed upon with representatives of certain areas of 

the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in the framework of the Trilateral Contact Group. 

Elections will be held in accordance with relevant OSCE standards and monitored 

by OSCE/ODIHR. 

13. Intensify the work of the Trilateral Contact Group including through the 

establishment of working groups on the implementation of relevant aspects of the 

Minsk agreements. They will reflect the composition of the Trilateral Contact 

Group. 

 

  Note 
 

Such measures are, according to the Law on the special order for local self -

government in certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions:  

 – Exemption from punishment, prosecution and discrimination for persons 

involved in the events that have taken place in certain areas of the Donetsk and 

Luhansk regions; 

 – Right to linguistic self-determination; 

 – Participation of organs of local self-government in the appointment of heads of 

public prosecution offices and courts in certain areas of the Donetsk and 

Luhansk regions; 



S/2015/117 
 

 

15-02150 4/5 

 

 – Possibility for central governmental authorities to initiate agreements with 

organs of local self-government regarding the economic, social and cultural 

development of certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions;  

 – State supports the social and economic development of certain areas of the 

Donetsk and Luhansk regions; 

 – Support by central government authorities of cross-border cooperation in 

certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions with districts of the Russian 

Federation; 

 – Creation of the people’s police units by decision of local councils for the 

maintenance of public order in certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk 

regions; 

 – The powers of deputies of local councils and officials, elected at early 

elections, appointed by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine by this law, cannot be 

early terminated. 

 

Participants of the Trilateral Contact Group: 

Ambassador Heidi Tagliavini 

Second President of Ukraine, L. D. Kuchma 

Ambassador of the Russian Federation to Ukraine, M. Yu. Zurabov 

A.W. Zakharchenko 

I.W. Plotnitski 



 
S/2015/117 

 

5/5 15-02150 

 

Annex II 
 

  Declaration of the President of the Russian Federation, the 

President of Ukraine, the President of the French Republic and  

the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in support  

of the “Package of Measures for the Implementation of the  

Minsk Agreements”, adopted on 12 February 2015 in Minsk 
 

 

The President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, the President of Ukraine, 

Petro Poroshenko, the President of the French Republic, François Hollande, and the 

Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. Angela Merkel, reaffirm their 

full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. They firmly 

believe that there is no alternative to an exclusively peaceful settlement. They are 

fully committed to undertake all possible individual and joint measures to this end.  

Against this background, leaders endorse the Package of Measures for the 

Implementation of the Minsk Agreements adopted and signed on February 12, 2015 

by all signatories who also signed Minsk Protocol of September 5, 2014 and Minsk 

Memorandum of September 19, 2014. Leaders will contribute to this process and 

will use their influence on relevant parties to facilitate the implementation of that 

Package of Measures. 

Germany and France will provide technical expertise for the restoration of the 

segment of the banking system in the conflict affected areas, possibly through the 

establishment of an international mechanism to facilitate social transfers.  

Leaders share the conviction that improved cooperation between the EU, Ukraine 

and Russia will be conducive to the crisis settlement. To this end, they endorse the 

continuation of trilateral talks between the EU, Ukraine and Russia on energy issues 

in order to achieve follow-up stages to the gas winter package. 

They also support trilateral talks between the EU, Ukraine and Russia in order to 

achieve practical solutions to concerns raised by Russia with regards to the 

implementation of the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement between 

Ukraine and the EU. 

Leaders remain committed to the vision of a joint humanitarian and economic space 

from the Atlantic to the Pacific based upon full respect for international law and the 

OSCE principles. 

Leaders will remain committed to the implementation of the Minsk Agreements. To 

this end, they agree to establish an oversight mechanism in the Normandy format 

which will convene at regular intervals, in principle on the level of senior officials 

from the foreign ministries. 

 


