






















































Etpu


 United Nations  S/2006/996

  
 

Security Council  Distr.: General 
19 December 2006 
 
Original: English 

 

 
06-67125 (E)    191206   
*0667125* 

  Argentina, Denmark, France, Greece, Japan, Peru, Russian Federation, 
Slovakia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and 
United States of America: draft resolution 
 
 

 The Security Council, 

 Recalling the statement of its President of 22 June 2006 (S/PRST/2006/28), 

 Emphasizing that sanctions are an important tool in the maintenance and 
restoration of international peace and security, 

 Further emphasizing the obligations placed upon all Member States to 
implement, in full, the mandatory measures adopted by the Security Council, 

 Continuing in its resolve to ensure that sanctions are carefully targeted in 
support of clear objectives and implemented in ways that balance effectiveness 
against possible adverse consequences, 

 Committed to ensuring that fair and clear procedures exist for placing 
individuals and entities on sanctions lists and for removing them, as well as for 
granting humanitarian exemptions, 

 1. Adopts the de-listing procedure in the document annexed to this 
resolution and requests the Secretary-General to establish within the Secretariat 
(Security Council Subsidiary Organs Branch), a focal point to receive de-listing 
requests and to perform the tasks described in the attached annex; 

 2. Directs the sanctions committees established by the Security Council, 
including those established pursuant to resolution 1718 (2006), 1636 (2005), 1591 
(2005), 1572 (2004), 1533 (2004), 1521 (2005), 1518 (2003), 1267 (1999), 1132 
(1997), 918 (1994), and 751 (1992) to revise their guidelines accordingly; 

 3. Decides to remain seized of the matter. 



S/2006/996  
 

06-67125 2 
 

  De-listing procedure 
 
 

 The Security Council requests the Secretary-General to establish, within the 
Secretariat (Security Council Subsidiary Organs Branch), a focal point to receive 
de-listing requests. Petitioners seeking to submit a request for de-listing can do so 
either through the focal point process outlined below or through their state of 
residence or citizenship.1 
 

  The focal point will perform the following tasks: 
 

1. Receive de-listing requests from a petitioner (individual(s), groups, 
undertakings, and/or entities on the Sanctions Committee’s lists). 

2. Verify if the request is new or is a repeated request. 

3. If it is a repeated request and if it does not contain any additional information, 
return it to the petitioner. 

4. Acknowledge receipt of the request to the petitioner and inform the petitioner 
on the general procedure for processing that request. 

5. Forward the request, for their information and possible comments to the 
designating government(s) and to the government(s) of citizenship and residence. 
Those governments are encouraged to consult with the designating government(s) 
before recommending de-listing. To this end, they may approach the focal point, 
which, if the designating state(s) so agree(s), will put them in contact with the 
designating state(s). 

6. (a) If, after these consultations, any of these governments recommend 
de-listing, that government will forward its recommendation, either through the 
focal point or directly to the Chairman of the Sanctions Committee, accompanied by 
that government’s explanation. The Chairman will then place the de-listing request 
on the Committee’s agenda. 

 (b) If any of the governments, which were consulted on the de-listing request 
under paragraph 5 above oppose the request, the focal point will so inform the 
Committee and provide copies of the de-listing request. Any member of the 
Committee, which possesses information in support of the de-listing request, is 
encouraged to share such information with the governments that reviewed the 
de-listing request under paragraph 5 above. 

 (c) If, after a reasonable time (3 months), none of the governments which 
reviewed the de-listing request under paragraph 5 above comment, or indicate that 
they are working on the de-listing request to the Committee and require an 
additional definite period of time, the focal point will so notify all members of the 
Committee and provide copies of the de-listing request. Any member of the 
Committee may, after consultation with the designating government(s), recommend 
de-listing by forwarding the request to the Chairman of the Sanctions Committee, 
accompanied by an explanation. (Only one member of the Committee needs to 
recommend de-listing in order to place the issue on the Committee’s agenda.) If 
after one month, no Committee member recommends de-listing, then it shall be 

__________________ 

 1  A State can decide, that as a rule, its citizens or residents should address their de-listing requests 
directly to the focal point. The State will do so by a declaration addressed to the Chairman of the 
Committee that will be published on the Committee’s website. 



 S/2006/996

 

3 06-67125 
 

deemed rejected and the Chairman of the Committee shall inform the focal point 
accordingly. 

7. The focal point shall convey all communications, which it receives from 
Member States, to the Committee for its information. 

8. Inform the petitioner: 

 (a) Of the decision of the Sanctions Committee to grant the de-listing 
petition; or 

 (b) That the process of consideration of the de-listing request within the 
Committee has been completed and that the petitioner remains on the list of the 
Committee. 

 


