






















































Etpu


 United Nations  S/2007/64

  
 

Security Council  Distr.: General 
7 February 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

 
07-23202 (E)    140207     
*0723202* 

  Letter dated 6 February 2007 from the Secretary-General 
addressed to the President of the Security Council 
 
 

 I have the honour to refer to Security Council resolution 1721 (2006) of 
1 November 2006, in which the Security Council invited the African Union and the 
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to review, before 
1 February 2007, the progress achieved in the implementation of the peace process, 
and requested them to report to the Council, through the Secretary-General, on their 
assessment. 

 In this regard, I wish to convey the attached report on the situation in Côte 
d’Ivoire, prepared by the ECOWAS Commission pursuant to paragraph 21 of the 
aforementioned resolution (see annex). 

 I should be grateful if you would bring this report to the attention of the 
members of the Security Council. 
 
 

(Signed) Ban Ki-moon 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



S/2007/64  
 

07-23202 2 
 

Annex 
 

  Situation report on Côte d’Ivoire 
 

31 January 2007 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The mandate given to the transitional Prime Minister, which was confirmed by 
the United Nations Security Council, is to implement all the provisions of the road 
map drawn up by the International Working Group and the Agreements concluded 
between the Ivorian parties, with a view to holding free, open, fair and transparent 
elections by 31 October 2007, with the support of the United Nations and potential 
donors. By resolution 1721 (2006) of 1 November 2006, the transitional Prime 
Minister is charged with the responsibility of executing the following programmes: 

 – Disarmament, demobilization and reintegration. 

 – Citizen identification and voter registration, as the basis for the 
compilation of a credible electoral list. 

 – Disarmament and dismantling of the militias. 

 – Restoration of State authority and of the administration and public 
services through the territory of Côte d’Ivoire. 

 – Technical preparations for the elections. 

 – The restructuring of the armed forces in accordance with paragraph 17 of 
the decision of the African Union Peace and Security Council and 
paragraph 3, article (f), of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement. 

2. The present report is in compliance with paragraph 21 of Security Council 
resolution 1721 (2006) by which the Council requested the Economic Community of 
West African States (ECOWAS) and the African Union to continue to monitor and 
closely follow up implementation of the peace process, and called on them to review 
progress achieved, by 1 February 2007. The Security Council also requested the two 
Institutions to present their assessment through the Secretary-General, and, if 
necessary, submit any new recommendations to the Council. 
 
 

 II. Status of implementation of resolution 1721 (2006) 
 
 

3. A significant development during the period under review was the Presidential 
Dialogue Initiative announced by President Laurent Gbagbo on 18 December 2006, 
and repeated in his New Year address to the nation, by which he engages the New 
Forces in direct negotiations designed to resolve the five-year-old conflict. The 
rationale for this approach was the acknowledgement that previous peace efforts had 
failed, hence the need to engage the major protagonist in direct talks, and resolve 
the crisis without outside interference. He put forward a five-point proposal that 
remained significantly silent on the Security Council framework embodied in 
resolution 1721 (2006). 

4. The response from the New Forces to the latest Presidential Dialogue Initiative 
welcomed the move towards direct talks, but only within the framework of 



 S/2007/64

 

3 07-23202 
 

resolution 1721 (2006), the said talks serving only as a mechanism for the 
implementation of the peace plan as identified in the resolution. 

5. Despite the current stalemate in the Ivorian peace process, it is relevant to 
report certain positive developments that have taken place. The Transitional Prime 
Minister has continued to implement the day-to-day administrative programmes 
contained in the approved road map, through the Council of Ministers of which he is 
the Chairman. These include: 

 – The establishment of the working group on the preparations for the 
citizen identification exercise and the establishment of a voters register. 
The Prime Minister’s office has met with the principal actors in the 
identification exercise, namely, the judiciary, court clerks/recorders and 
medical personnel, mayors etc., in order to clarify the procedure involved 
and its legal implications. Resumption of the identification exercise was 
scheduled for 15 January 2007, by which time the issue of the 
appointment of 208 additional courts and the appellate court would have 
been resolved. 

 – Tenders for the selection of the principal operators to carry out the 
identification exercise on behalf of the Government have been opened 
and are being screened in conjunction with the United Nations High 
Representative for the elections and UNOCI. 

 – On the issue of disarmament, work is ongoing on the preparation of the 
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration sites for ex-combatants. 
The Quadripartite Monitoring Group established pursuant to the visit of 
the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, to Yamoussoukro on 4 July 2006, has 
been constituted, but has yet to carry out verification of the 
pre-regroupment exercise, since work on the sites is yet to be concluded. 
Meanwhile, a seminar on disarmament, demobilization and reintegration 
was organized in Yamoussoukro on 27 and 28 November 2006. 

 – The disarming and dismantling of the militias which was discontinued 
during the National Programme for Disarmament, Demobilization and 
Reintegration in August 2006 has yet to resume. However, discussions 
with the militia leaders on modalities for the resumption of the exercise 
are ongoing under the auspices of the Prime Minister. 

 

  Major constraints 
 

6. As emphasized in the ECOWAS recommendations to the African Union, dated 
October 2006, the entire peace process depends to a large extent on the degree of 
confidence and collaboration between the two major executive arms of 
government — the President and the Transitional Prime Minister on the one hand, 
and all sections of the political class involved in the crisis, on the other. 

7. However, there is still great concern over the manifest lack of political will to 
implement resolution 1721 (2006) and thereby advance the peace process. The 
political class continues to exhibit a lukewarm attitude towards the crisis and 
consequently to many crucial issues. 

8. Relations between the President and the Prime Minister are anything but 
cordial. For example, since the adoption of resolution 1721 (2006), the Council of 



S/2007/64  
 

07-23202 4 
 

Ministers, which is presided by the President, with the Prime Minister in attendance, 
and formally adopts decisions and proposals presented by the Executive Council, 
which is presided by the Prime Minister, has met only once. The tandem of 
President and Prime Minister, as acknowledged by the Prime Minister himself, is no 
longer pedalling in the same direction. 

9. There are other points of divergence hinging on issues of governance, such as 
the handling of the toxic waste scandal during which the President reinstated 
government officials accused in an ad hoc report and suspended by the Prime 
Minister, the dismissal, again by the President, of the Directors-General of the 
Radio and Television Corporation and the Print Media Group, Fraternité Matin, as 
well as the dissolution of the Board of Directors of these State media groups. 
 

  The Mediation Group 
 

10. In response to the worsening stalemate in the peace process and its 
repercussions on the already unstable socio-political and security situation, a 
delegation of the Mediation Group led by General Jean-Marie Mokoko, Chairman of 
the Group and Special Representative of the African Union Chairman in Côte 
d’Ivoire, undertook a consultative mission to the Heads of State of Nigeria, the 
Niger, Burkina Faso and the Congo, to brief them on the lack of improvement in the 
situation in the country, the implementation status of resolution 1721 (2006) and, 
more particularly, to entreat their intervention in order to move the stalled process 
forward. 

11. A similar approach was proposed to the ECOWAS Council of Ministers, 
through a report presented at its meeting on 22 December 2006 in Ouagadougou. 
 
 

 III. Decision of the Authority of Heads of State and Government 
 
 

12. The Authority of Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community 
of West African States at its thirty-first session, held in Ouagadougou on 19 January 
2007, having deliberated on and reviewed the situation in Côte d’Ivoire, decided as 
follows: 

 (a) They expressed deep concern over the persistence of the crisis and 
stressed the need to find a lasting solution to the crisis, based on the immediate 
concomitant launching of a programme of citizen identification and disarming of the 
armed groups in order to create the necessary conditions for the organization of free, 
fair and credible elections by October 2007. 

 (b) The Authority called upon all Ivorian political forces to cooperate in the 
implementation of Security Council resolution 1721 (2006). 

 (c) They welcomed the political dialogue initiative by President Laurent 
Gbagbo, for direct talks with Minister of State Guillaume Soro. The Authority 
further enjoined its Chairman to facilitate the dialogue so as to give momentum to 
the peace process. 

 (d) The Authority, in addition decided, in consultation with the African 
Union, to send a high-level delegation to the permanent members of the Security 
Council, with a view to exploring the ways and means of ensuring diligent 
application of resolution 1721 (2006) depending on the outcome of the dialogue. 



 S/2007/64

 

5 07-23202 
 

 (e) The Authority called upon the United Nations Security Council to visit 
Côte d’Ivoire to add further impetus to the peace process. 
 
 

 IV. Latest developments 
 
 

13. The current Chairman of the Economic Community of West African States, 
President Blaise Compaore, subsequent to the Summit decisions, held talks, first 
with the Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo in Ouagadougou and, thereafter, with 
Minister of State Guillaume Soro, of the Forces nouvelles in Bobo Dioulasso, in an 
effort to ensure a speedy engagement of the “direct talks” proposed by President 
Gbagbo. 

14. The Heads of State and Government of the African Union at their Summit in 
Addis Ababa on 29 and 30 January 2007 similarly welcomed the proposed direct 
talks as a mechanism to advance the peace process. 
 
 

 V. Observation 
 
 

15. The socio-political situation in Côte d’Ivoire continues to generate great 
concern, and remained tense during the period under review. Any mediation effort 
must be premised on the need to ensure a harmonious relationship between the 
“direct talks” and the timely implementation of resolution 1721 (2006), President 
Laurent Gbagbo and the Transitional Prime Minister, Konan Banny. 
 
 

 VI. Recommendations 
 
 

16. In view of the developments highlighted in the present report, the Economic 
Community of West African States hereby appeals to the United Nations 
Secretary-General to request the Security Council to remain actively seized of the 
situation in Côte d’Ivoire. More importantly, ECOWAS would wish the 
Secretary-General to recommend to the Security Council to visit Côte d’Ivoire in the 
next few months as a means of re-energizing implementation of resolution 1721 
(2006). 

 


