











































Microsoft Word - 0547740e.doc


United Nations S/2005/625

 

Security Council Distr.: General
4 October 2005

Original: English

05-47740 (E)    051005

*0547740*

Letter dated 5 October 2005 from the Chairman of the
Security Council Committee established pursuant to resolution
751 (1992) concerning Somalia addressed to the President of the
Security Council

On behalf of the Security Council Committee established pursuant to
resolution 751 (1992) concerning Somalia, and in accordance with paragraph 3 (i) of
Security Council resolution 1587 (2005), I have the honour to transmit herewith the
report of the Monitoring Group on Somalia (see enclosure).

In this connection, the Committee would appreciate it if this letter, together
with its enclosure, were brought to the attention of the members of the Security
Council and issued as a document of the Council.

(Signed) Lauro L. Baja, Jr.
Chairman

Security Council Committee established pursuant to
resolution 751 (1992) concerning Somalia



2

S/2005/625

Enclosure
Letter dated 22 August 2005 from the members of the Monitoring
Group on Somalia addressed to the Chairman of the Security
Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 751 (1992)

We have the honour to transmit herewith the report of the Monitoring Group
on Somalia in accordance with paragraph 3 (i) of Security Council resolution 1587
(2005).

(Signed) Bruno Schiemsky
Coordinator

Monitoring Group on Somalia

(Signed) Melvin E. Holt, Jr.

(Signed) Harjit S. Kelley

(Signed) Joel Salek



3

S/2005/625

Report of the Monitoring Group on Somalia pursuant to
Security Council resolution 1587 (2005)

Contents
Paragraphs Page

Abbreviations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

 I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1–7 7

A. Mandate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1–5 7

B. Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6–7 8

 II. Known arms embargo violations during the mandate period. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8–42 8

A. Bakaraaha Arms Market, arms-trading networks and the opposition . . . . . . . . 9–19 8

B. Direct State support for the opposition and the Transitional Federal
Government . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20–42 12

 III. Analysis of trends and patterns of arms embargo violations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43–58 17

A. A pattern of State support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43–45 17

B. Status of the Transitional Federal Government and the opposition: military
build-up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46–50 17

C. Geographic expansion through military action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51–55 18

D. Business as usual and fighting to maintain vested interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56–58 19

 IV. Financial and maritime activities for revenue generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59–105 20

A. Local administrations and revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59–62 20

B. Local administration of the Lower Juba region and the city of Kismaayo . . . . 63–71 21

C. Local administration of Middle Shabelle and the city of Jowhar . . . . . . . . . . . 72–77 23

D. Local administration of Lower Shabelle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78–85 23

E. Maritime activities and revenue: charcoal, fisheries and piracy . . . . . . . . . . . . 86–105 25

 V. Capacity-building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106–109 29

 VI. Coordination with neighbouring States and other organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110–115 30

A. Neighbouring States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110–113 30

B. Other organizations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114–115 32

 VII. Conclusions and recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116–123 33

A. Conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116–118 33

B. Recommendations: an integrated arms embargo approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119–123 33



4

S/2005/625

Annexes

I. Arms purchases and sales at the Bakaraaha Arms Market investigated during the mandate
period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

II. Response of the Government of Yemen to the Monitoring Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

III. Flight details from Yemen to Bossaso (Somalia) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

IV. Sample sources of revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

V. List of vessels attacked by pirates off the Somali coast in the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of
Aden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

VI. Response of the Government of Ethiopia to the Monitoring Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

VII. Countries visited and representatives of Governments, organizations and private entities
interviewed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59



5

S/2005/625

Abbreviations

BAM Bakaraaha Arms Market

EU European Union

FAO Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations

JVA Juba Valley Alliance

MFV Motor fishing vessel

MV Merchant vessel

NGO Non-governmental organization

OLF Ogaden Liberation Front

ONLF Oromo National Liberation Front

SRRC Somali Reconciliation and Restoration Council

TNG Transitional National Government

TFG Transitional Federal Government

UNDP United Nations Development Programme



6

S/2005/625

Summary
During the current mandate period, arms embargo violations took a sustained

and dramatic upswing, even when compared with violations of the previous period,
which were also continual and numerous. Those involved in committing the
violations included both members of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) and
members of the opposition in Mogadishu, as well as certain States in the region,
whose more visible involvement in the affairs of Somalia in terms of providing arms
to the side of their choice allegedly reflects their own strategic and vital interests.

The dramatic upswing in the flow of arms into Somalia is a manifestation of the
highly aggravated political tensions between TFG and the opposition. This has
correspondingly given rise to the increasing militarization of both sides, which has
resulted in a severely elevated threat of widespread violence in central and southern
Somalia.

Members of the opposition who committed arms embargo violations during the
current mandate period — some of them dissident members of TFG — are the same
individuals who have been identified in past reports of the Monitoring Group as
warlords who have demonstrated through their actions and activities that they do not
want to see a Government established in Somalia that would infringe or overturn
their personal political and economic vested interests. A number of these same
individuals have well-established and entrenched local administrations that are a
reflection of their vested interests.

The Monitoring Group has obtained a better understanding of the structure and
organization of some important local administrations and, as a result, has a better
appreciation of the sources of the revenue that accrues to those in charge. In
particular, the Monitoring Group has identified certain key revenue generators in the
area of marine fisheries and the export of huge commercial quantities of charcoal by
cargo ships that provide the bulk of known earned revenue to certain powerful local
administrations; reliance on shipping and the fishing industry is necessary to
complete the financial circuit. The Monitoring Group firmly believes that revenues
thus obtained are used by those in charge to help maintain their militias and for
purchasing arms.

Accordingly, the Monitoring Group recommends in the present report that the
Security Council consider enhancing and strengthening the existing arms embargo by
adopting an integrated arms embargo for the purpose of reducing the financial
capacity of individuals in charge of local administrations to buy arms in violation of
the arms embargo.

In paragraph 3 (d) of its resolution 1587 (2005), the Security Council requested
the Monitoring Group to continue refining and updating information on the draft list
of individuals and entities who violate the measures implemented by Member States
in accordance with resolution 733 (1992), inside and outside Somalia, and their
active supporters, for the purpose of possible future measures by the Council, and to
present such information to the Committee established pursuant to resolution 751
(1992) as and when the Committee deems appropriate. The Monitoring Group
continues to refine and update the draft list.



7

S/2005/625

I. Introduction

A. Mandate

1. In paragraph 3 of its resolution 1587 (2005) of 15 March 2005, the Security
Council conferred the following mandate on the Monitoring Group on Somalia:

(a) To continue investigating the implementation of the arms embargo by
Member States and violations, inter alia, through field-based investigations in
Somalia, where possible, and, as appropriate, in other States, in particular those in
the region;

(b) To assess actions taken by Somali authorities, as well as Member States,
in particular those in the region, to fully implement the arms embargo;

(c) To make specific recommendations based on detailed information in
relevant areas of expertise related to violations and measures to give effect to and
strengthen the implementation of the arms embargo in its various aspects;

(d) To continue refining and updating information on the draft list of
individuals and entities who violate the measures implemented by Member States in
accordance with resolution 733 (1992), inside and outside Somalia, and their active
supporters, for the purpose of possible future measures by the Council, and to
present such information to the Committee established pursuant to resolution 751
(1992) as and when the Committee deems appropriate;

(e) To continue making recommendations based on its investigations, on the
previous reports of the Panel of Experts (S/2003/223 and S/2003/1035) appointed
pursuant to resolutions 1425 (2002) and 1474 (2003) and on the previous reports of
the Monitoring Group (S/2004/604 and S/2005/153);

(f) To work closely with the Committee on specific recommendations for
additional measures to improve overall compliance with the arms embargo;

(g) To assist in identifying areas where the capacities of States in the region
can be strengthened to facilitate the implementation of the arms embargo;

(h) To provide to the Council, through the Committee, a midterm briefing
within 90 days from its establishment;

(i) To submit to the Council through the Committee, no later than 30 days
prior to the termination of its mandate, a final report covering all the tasks set out
above, which the Committee will subsequently consider and convey to the Council
prior to the expiration of its mandate.

2. The Monitoring Group was based in Nairobi and comprised the following
experts: Bruno Schiemsky (Belgium), arms expert and coordinator; Melvin Holt, Jr.
(United States of America), arms expert; Harjit Kelley (Kenya), maritime expert;
and Joel Salek (Colombia), finance expert.

3. The Monitoring Group travelled to areas of concern in Kenya and to the
United Arab Emirates, Yemen, France and the United States of America.

4. Throughout the period of its mandate, the Monitoring Group kept the Security
Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 751 (1992) informed of its
activities by submitting progress reports every two weeks through the United



8

S/2005/625

Nations Secretariat and by providing a midterm briefing at United Nations
Headquarters in New York in July 2005.

5. The Monitoring Group received much-appreciated support and assistance from
the United Nations Secretariat and other United Nations agencies, in New York,
Europe and the region.

B. Methodology

6. The Monitoring Group interviewed government officials in the region,
including members of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG), and, where
relevant, representatives of diplomatic missions, civil society organizations and aid
agencies. The Monitoring Group also contacted numerous key knowledgeable
individuals from Somali civil society, including members of the opposition.

7. The two reports of the Panel of Experts (S/2003/223 and S/2003/1035) and the
two previous reports of the Monitoring Group (S/2004/604 and S/2005/153) were
also taken into consideration during the investigations. The evidentiary standards
and verification process that were developed during the two previous mandates of
the Monitoring Group, which were clearly outlined in the Group’s first and second
reports, were also used during the current mandate.

II. Known arms embargo violations during the mandate period

8. During the current mandate period, unyielding pressure towards a military
solution between TFG and opposition forces has taken pre-eminence over a political
solution. The opposition includes businessmen, warlords, organizations such as
Al Itihad Al Islaami and dissident ministers of TFG. The demand for arms by both
sides increased dramatically over the previous mandate period, ending 15 March
2005, and continued unabated as at the writing of the present report, 22 August
2005. The Monitoring Group received many reports concerning arms flows into
Somalia, most of which it believed had a foundation in fact. However, due to time
and other constraints, it was able to investigate only a portion of the information
received. But the Monitoring Group determined with a reasonable degree of
certainty that arms were supplied directly to either TFG or the opposition by
Ethiopia, Yemen and another State in the region. In addition, the opposition was
supplied with arms by criminal groups or arms-trading networks through the
medium of the Bakaraaha Arms Market (BAM) at Irtogte in Mogadishu.

A. Bakaraaha Arms Market, arms-trading networks and
the opposition

9. The flow of arms into and through BAM is a good barometer of arms flows
into and around Somalia, since the Monitoring Group believes that arms coming
into Somalia via seaports, airports and roads are, to a significant degree, channelled
to BAM. Based on the totality of available information — past reports of the Panel
of Experts and the Monitoring Group and the work of the current Monitoring
Group — the Monitoring Group believes that a very significant quantity of the arms
available for sale at BAM come from Yemen.



9

S/2005/625

10. The numbers of recorded transactions in recent months at BAM are as follows:
March, 13; April, 25; May, 37; June, 40; July, 32; and August, 18 (1-14 August
only). This constitutes a 378 per cent increase in the number of transactions, or arms
embargo violations, from the previous reporting period, October to December 2004.
Opposition elements in Mogadishu and their allies in central and southern Somalia
have been the primary recipients of arms from BAM, while incidental purchases
have been made by TFG members (see annex I for transaction details). In spite of
the above-indicated increases in the number of transactions, the Monitoring Group
believes that the overall potential supply of arms to BAM has been negatively
affected by two factors.

11. Firstly, arms available at BAM, during the early part of the mandate period,
were affected by the surveillance activities of the foreign naval task forces operating
in the Gulf of Aden. Around mid-April, sales of arms from Yemen at BAM were
reported by sources to be negatively affected by foreign naval task forces operations
being conducted along the northern Somali coastline. Accordingly, the arms-trading
networks were forced to exercise greater care in the movement of arms shipments
from Yemen to Somalia across the Gulf of Aden. It has also been reported to the
Monitoring Group that some of the criminal groups using dhows to transport
weapons from Yemen to Somalia reacted, for example, by dividing a single
shipment of arms into smaller quantities and loading them on different dhows for
transport across the Gulf of Aden to Puntland. The dhows then landed at different
locations along the coast of Puntland and used land transport to bring the separate
shipments back together into a single large consignment at Bossaso, Puntland. The
purpose of this practice was to reduce potential losses of arms to the naval task
force operations. The Monitoring Group believes that the overall effect of this
reaction on the part of the criminal groups to the increased threat of being
apprehended by the naval task forces has been to slow the flow of arms and thereby
contribute to a reduction in their overall availability at BAM.

12. Based on cooperation extended to the Monitoring Group by the Government of
Yemen, stemming from meetings between the two parties in August 2005 at Sana’a,
the Monitoring Group offers the following example of an illegal arms-trading
network that operated between Yemen and Somalia and its apprehension by foreign
naval task forces operating in the Gulf of Yemen and Yemeni authorities:

“On the evening of Friday, 7 May 2004, the vessel (za`imah) ‘Al-Nasr’
(No. 1184) was intercepted at a distance of 70 miles from the Yemeni coast by
a United States vessel belonging to the coalition forces. [Seven crew members
were on board.]

“In addition, the following ordnance was found:

“–536 AK-47 rifles;

– 7 modified rifles;

– 2 medium-calibre 14.5 mm machine guns, plus 84 rounds of
ammunition;

– 12,000 rounds of 30-mm ammunition;

– 1,239 AK-74 rifle ammunition cases;

– 34,770 rounds of 7.62 mm ammunition;



10

S/2005/625

– A set of rifle belts and cleaning boxes;

– A radio communications set;

– A hand-held GPS unit;

– Documents and passports.

“The arms and ammunition had been placed in sacks, of which there
were 30 to 40. The weapons were impounded by the weapons officer of the
United States vessel and subsequently handed over to the Yemeni authorities.
The case was turned over to the Hadramawt Public Prosecutor’s Office on
25 August 2004, along with the 12 persons detained.

(...)

“The seven crew members of the vessel ... were also turned over. The
members of the network have confessed to smuggling two earlier shipments
prior to the one seized.

“It is also apparent from the seizure report that other persons connected
with smuggling remain fugitives from justice. The security authorities are
continuing their efforts to capture them. [They include Abdullah Yusuf Farih, a
Somali national who receives weapons in Somalia, and Ali Al-Dharafi, who
supplies and sells weapons to the band.]

“A. The modestly resourced Coastguard Department has partially achieved
its intended goal of securing Yemeni ports, in addition to carrying out patrol
activities. It has consequently been able to seize quantities of drugs and reduce
illegal infiltration into the Republic of Yemen by displaced persons from the
Horn of Africa. It has also seized quantities of drugs and weapons in
cooperation with the naval forces and the coalition forces present in the region.

“B. Owing to their low income, it is difficult for fishermen to satisfy their
essential everyday needs. In contrast, fishermen engaged in smuggling goods,
weapons, drugs and human beings, inter alia, reap alluring profits, and it is this
that induces them to perpetrate such acts in violation of the law.

“The situation in Somalia has led people to turn to illicit trade of this
kind. Moreover, the presence of a large number of Somali refugees in our
country facilitates the passage of such shipments without the knowledge of the
competent authorities.”1

13. With regard to the second factor affecting arms supplies to BAM, the
Monitoring Group believes that Abdullahi Yusuf, TFG President and former
President of Puntland, is very well aware of BAM arms-supply channels and the fact
that members of the opposition were the principal beneficiaries of arms sales at
BAM. The Monitoring Group learned that, accordingly, about the beginning July
2005, President Yusuf took two decisions that ultimately affected the overall
availability of arms for sale at BAM: (a) he blocked the use of the port of Bossaso
for dhows delivering arms destined for BAM and attempted to block all roads that
the arms traders use in Puntland to convey the arms to Mogadishu, and (b) he
further made a deal with arms dealers based in Puntland from his clan — Darod —
not to supply arms to BAM, providing the reason that the arms would ultimately go
to the opposition in Mogadishu, which is preparing to use the arms to fight fellow
clan members — Darod militias — from Puntland. The Monitoring Group believes



11

S/2005/625

that the effect of this action is a noticeable downturn in arms shipments reaching
BAM and of sales to key opposition members buying there.

14. It must be recalled from the two previous Monitoring Group reports that the
network of arms traders relies heavily on the port of Bossaso and the road
infrastructure of Puntland to effectively move supplies of arms to BAM. It must also
be recalled from past reports that the larger arms dealers at BAM have storage
facilities. Therefore, any actions intended to affect the availability of arms at BAM,
such as the ones taken by President Yusuf, would necessarily have a delayed impact
on overall availability at any given time, depending on demand and stocks available.

15. The Monitoring Group noted that as a result of the actions described above the
number of transactions in July — 32 — was 20 per cent less than in June.

16. However, demand remained high due to the ongoing military preparations of
the opposition. Also as a result of high demand and decreased availability, prices for
specific weapons increased by as much as 85 per cent. The Monitoring Group notes
with interest how BAM has been affected by the measures taken by President Yusuf
and believes that this has positive implications for the future control of the arms-
trading activities at BAM by an established Government in Somalia.

17. The foregoing notwithstanding, arms transactions remained numerous, as
indicated in the statistical increase over transactions documented in the previous
mandate period. The arms were crucially important for opposition plans to protect
itself against TFG forces. The opposition used arms purchased at BAM to fight TFG
in the battle for control of the strategically important town of Baidoa (Bay region).
Both the leadership of the opposition in Mogadishu and Habsade, the member of the
opposition in charge of Baidoa, purchased arms from BAM in apparent anticipation
of the fight for Baidoa. It is significant to note that on 22 May 2005, approximately
one week before the second battle of Baidoa, a very large arms shipment arrived
from Yemen, via the arms-trading networks, at BAM. The shipment consisted of 500
AK-47 assault rifles, 100 PKM machine guns, 120 RPG-2 rocket launchers, 3 Zu-23
anti-aircraft guns, 15 DShK anti-aircraft guns, 12 Dhuunshilke one-barrel anti-
aircraft guns, 20 120mm mortars, 6 B-10s and a variety of ammunition. The buyers
included the following: Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde, who on 23 May 2005 bought
28 AK-47s, 3 120mm mortars, 2 Dhuunshilkes, 2 B-10s, 11 RPG-2s and a variety of
ammunition; Muse Suudi, who on 25 May 2005 bought 50 AK-47s, magazines for
AK-47s, ammunition boxes, empty belt feeders for PKMs, belts for militiamen and
a variety of ammunition; Qanyare, who on 25 May 2005 bought 50 AK-47s,
4 PKMs, ammunition for small arms, mortars and Zu-23s, magazines for AK-47s
and empty belt feeders for PKMs; Atto, who on 25 May 2005 bought 4 120mm
mortars and 120 shells for them; and, Habsade who on 26 May 2005 bought 50 AK-
47s and a variety of ammunition, through Indohaadde’s representative at BAM (see
annex I).

18. Similarly, learning of TFG plans for a possible move to Jowhar, the opposition
also purchased arms from BAM and moved some militias to positions around
Jowhar. The militias involved in encircling Jowhar included that of Muse Suudi,
who moved his militia to a position about five kilometres south-west of the city.
Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde moved militia members from Baledogle airfield to
positions north-east of Jowhar. Bashir Rage and Abukar Omar Adaan sent 13 of
their most militarily capable technicals to positions located 20 kilometres south-east
of Jowhar. The Monitoring Group noted that during this time, the opposition had



12

S/2005/625

purchased a number of anti-aircraft weapons and ammunition from BAM. The
buyers included the following: Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde, who on 22 April 2005
bought 1 DShK anti-aircraft gun and ammunition for a Zu-23 anti-aircraft gun and
on 25 April 2005 bought DShK Zu-23 ammunition; Mohamed Qanyare, who bought
2 DShKs on 16 April 2005; and Bashir Rage, who bought 1 Zu-23 and ammunition
on 23 April 2005 and 2 DShKs on 15 May 2005.

19. Although members of the opposition were the principal buyers of arms from
BAM during the mandate period, the Monitoring Group also learned that sub-clans
engaged with one another in ongoing resource-related hostilities — over livestock
and land, for example — also made purchases at BAM. For example, in the fight in
the Beletweyne area (Hiraan region) between the Gaaljeel and the Jaleele sub-clans
over livestock, the Gaaljeel bought 50 AK-47 assault rifles, 11 RPG-7s, 2 80mm
mortars and a variety of ammunition from BAM on 4 June 2005. Three days later,
the Jaleele bought 25 AK-47 assault rifles, 2 anti-aircraft guns, 6 PKM machine
guns, 4 RPG-2s and ammunition. Other examples of purchases by sub-clans are
included in annex I. The Monitoring Group notes that BAM is profit-driven and
sells to anyone who has the required amount of money, regardless of the intended
use or its impact, including destabilizing the country.

B. Direct State support for the opposition and the Transitional
Federal Government

Yemen

20. The Monitoring Group has determined during the current mandate period that
arms flows from Yemen to Somalia came not only from criminal groups (to BAM
for purchase by the opposition) but also from the Government of Yemen directly to
TFG. Using military aircraft (Antonov 26) to transport arms shipments from Aden,
Yemen, to Bossaso, Puntland, in direct State support for TFG and President
Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, the Yemeni Air Force delivered arms on eight occasions
between 2 and 10 July 2005. Details of specific flights are included in annex III.
The Yemeni authorities also provided the following response to Monitoring Group
inquiries concerning their support for TFG.

“The unstable conditions in Somalia are a direct threat to the security and
stability of the Republic of Yemen, as they lead both to insecurity and to large-
scale migration of Somalis to Yemen, which has considerable adverse
consequences.

“Over the last decade the Yemeni Government has therefore followed a
clear policy aimed at restoring stability in Somalia, ending the civil war there
and supporting the central Government.

“Since the election of the present Government, Yemen has been pursuing
this approach with a view to supporting the legitimate Government of the
country. In so doing, Yemen has received full backing from the international
community, including the European Union, the African Union and the United
States of America.

“Accordingly, the Yemeni Government, in response to a direct personal
request from the new Somali President, provided the requested aid with a view



13

S/2005/625

to strengthening the capacities of the legitimate Government. The aid, which
was transported to Bossaso airport on a number of flights, comprised:

“–15,000 uniforms for the Somali police;

–Food supplies for 5,000 people;

–5,000 personal weapons.

“The framework within which this aid was provided can be stated as
follows:

“1. The aid was supplied to and at the request of the legitimate elected
Government, which has received international endorsement;

“2. Its aim was to enhance the capabilities of the police force and to
strengthen security so that the President can move to Mogadishu, the capital,
to perform his official duties. This cannot happen unless the armed bands are
disarmed in favour of the legitimate Government;

“3. The task of disarming those bands and consolidating the grip of the
legitimate authority is a sine qua non for combating terrorist hotbeds in
Somalia. It is consistent with the policies embraced by States all over the
world in the fight against terrorism and will ensure that no new Taliban
emerges in Somalia.

“Reinforcing security and stability in Somalia and strengthening the
legitimate Government represent a desideratum both for Yemen and for the
international community. Yemen has accordingly taken on this task,
notwithstanding the economic burden it entails, with a view to bringing an end
to the deteriorated conditions in Somalia. It trusts that the international
community will appreciate and duly compensate it for those efforts.”1

21. During a conversation with the Monitoring Group arms experts, a well-placed
source with intimate knowledge of the affairs of TFG confirmed that President
Yusuf and the Chief of Staff, General Naji, had negotiated a deal with the
Government of Yemen for the delivery of large numbers of arms and a variety of
ammunition, including the following: AK-47 and G3 assault rifles; RPG-7 and
RPG-2 rocket launchers; 75mm and B-10 anti-tank weapons; 37mm, 14.5mm and
12.7mm anti-aircraft guns; mines and hand grenades; shoulder-fired Strella missiles;
and 3 or 4 helicopters with missiles for the express purpose of fighting the
Mogadishu dissidents. Also included in the deal were other items of military
equipment, such as fatigues. Other Monitoring Group sources confirmed the
relevant flights and the arms deliveries.

22. Some of the goods listed above were received and unloaded on 5 August by
TFG forces located in Waajid, Bakool region, about halfway between Hudur and
Baidoa. The weapons — small arms and ammunition — blankets and fatigues were
delivered in three N3 lorries and came from Puntland via Ethiopia to Waajid. The
Minister of Agriculture, Hassan Mohamed Nuur (Shatiguduud) and the Minister of
Justice, Sheik Mohamed Noor (Madobe), among others, shared the arms shipment.
About 400 TFG militia members were expected to arrive in Waajid from Mustahil,
Ethiopia, receive the supplies and, at an unspecified date, attack opposition forces in
Baidoa.



14

S/2005/625

Ethiopia

23. The Monitoring Group learned that arms shipments were sent from the
Government of Ethiopia directly to TFG militia forces in Western Somalia. Upon
enquiry by the Monitoring Group, however, the Government of Ethiopia denied
providing arms shipments to TFG and sent a formal reply to that effect (see annex
VI). The following are examples of information obtained by the Monitoring Group
concerning military support in the form of arms and military training supplied to the
TFG forces by the Ethiopian Government.

24. In preparation for the second battle for control of Baidoa, the TFG forces of
Sheik Madobe (Minister of Justice), Shatiguduud (Minister of Agriculture) and
others were supplied with a steady flow of arms from Ethiopia. The following
chronology of events is indicative of Ethiopian arms support to TFG.

25. On 29 April 2005, a meeting took place in Ethiopia between Ethiopian military
officials and TFG officials, including the Minister of Justice, the Minister of
Planning, Mohamed Dheere, local administration leader in charge of Jowhar,
Abdikarim Farah Laqanyo, local administration leader in charge of Beledweyne and
the Chief of Staff, General Naji, and others.

26. Following that meeting and on 3 May 2005, N3 lorries entered Ethiopia from
the Bakool region of Somalia to pick up shipments of arms. On 5 May 2005, the
same lorries, transporting arms and foodstuffs, returned to Somalia via the border
town of Yeed, Bakool region. On 7 May 2005 the lorries containing the arms arrived
at Hudur, the capital city of the Bakool region, and temporarily stored the arms at
the Hudur police station.

27. On Sunday, 8 May, Sheik Hassan Madobe and Shatiguduud took possession of
the arms shipments. The arms consisted of AK-47 assault rifles, RPGs, a variety of
ammunition and explosives. The intended recipients were the militias of Madobe,
Shatiguduud and other TFG forces in Somalia.

28. On Monday, 9 May, the arms were distributed in Hudur among the TFG
militias. On Monday evening the militias moved to positions near Waajid, about 90
kilometres north of Baidoa.

29. On Tuesday, 10 May, the same militias moved to positions about 45 kilometres
north of Baidoa, near Goofgaduud. Also, between 7 and 10 May, the TFG Minister
of Planning, Abdirizak Osman Hassan, received a shipment of arms supplied by
Ethiopia at Luuq, located north of Baidoa in the Gedo region.

30. On 30 May 2005, TFG militia forces of Shatiguduud and Madobe attacked
militia forces of the opposition at Baidoa, under the command of Mohamed Ibrahim
Habsade. Habsade’s forces defeated the TFG forces and caused them to retreat from
the immediate area of Baidoa.

31. Following the battle, the Monitoring Group obtained photographs of
Ethiopian-supplied ammunition boxes made of wood and physical samples of thick
plastic Ethiopian-supplied ammunition pouches; the boxes and the pouches were
captured by Habsade’s forces. The following information is printed on the surface of
one of the pouches: “200 cartridges 7.62x54, Lot. No.: 13/2000”. Similar
information is also printed on the other pouches. The ammunition boxes contained
14.5mm armour-piercing ammunition for heavy machine guns; in the Somali



15

S/2005/625

context, this is the type of heavy machine gun that is typically mounted on
technicals.

32. Ethiopia also supplied arms to Mohamed Dheere, the warlord in charge of
Jowhar (Middle Shabelle) and a TFG ally. Mohamed Dheere had welcomed the
publicly expressed intention of TFG to locate the new Government at Jowhar. The
Monitoring Group was informed that Mohamed Dheere was supplied with arms
from Ethiopia to assist TFG in its possible relocation to Jowhar. For example,
during the first two weeks of May 2005, five lorries containing an arms shipment
from Ethiopia and destined for Mohamed Dheere travelled to Jowhar via Hudur and
Tayeeglow; two technicals escorted the arms shipment.

33. The Monitoring Group learned that Hudur was set up by TFG as a militia
staging area, supply centre and depot for arms supplied by Ethiopia. For example, in
June Mohamed Dheere also received a shipment of arms from Ethiopia, via Hudur.
On 17 June 2005, two N3 trailers left Jowhar and travelled to Hudur, arriving on
18 June. One of the N3s continued on to Ethiopia to pick up a shipment of arms.
Ammunition from Sheik Madobe’s Ethiopian-supplied arms stocks was loaded onto
the remaining N3, which departed Hudur on the night of 20 June 2005, escorted by
two technicals belonging to Sheik Madobe. The convoy travelled to Eel Garas
(Bakool region, east of Hudur), where technicals belonging to Mohamed Dheere
took over security escort services for the N3. The convoy arrived in Jowhar on
21 June 2005.

34. It is important to note that the Monitoring Group has been repeatedly informed
by numerous sources that as a matter of general practice, Ethiopia has typically and
historically provided small arms — assault rifles, RPGs, etc. — and ammunition to
warlords and allies in Somalia. It has also been reported to the Monitoring Group
that the warlords have on occasion also sold or bartered the Ethiopian-supplied
weapons at BAM in exchange for more powerful armaments, such as anti-aircraft
guns. The flow of weapons from Ethiopia to warlords and then to BAM helps to
explain another source of small arms and ammunition available at BAM. This
activity has been noted in previous reports of the Monitoring Group.

35. The Monitoring Group has also learned that the Ethiopian military conducted
military training for TFG militias from the Puntland, Bakool and Hiraan regions.
The training occurred in at least two locations, the Ethiopia-Somalia border town of
Fer Fer (Hiraan region, north of Beledweyne) and Waajid (Bakool region).

Another State in the region

36. The Monitoring Group has been informed that another State in the region
provided support to the opposition and the Oromo National Liberation Front
(ONLF) in the form of arms. That State provided arms to opposition allies including
Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde (Governor of Lower Shabelle), Sheik Hassan Dahir Aweys
(an Al Itihad leader) and others for the purpose of countering support provided to
TFG by Ethiopia.

37. Credible sources alleged that from approximately the beginning of February to
the end of the second week of May 2005, that State supplied arms on approximately
eight different occasions to Hassan Dahir Aweys and elements of ONLF that at the
time were located in the Dhusamareeb area of the Galgaduud region. The arms were



16

S/2005/625

transported on aircraft that flew from the State in question to an airfield located in
the Dhusamareeb area.

38. Hassan Dahir Aweys had travelled to that central Somalia location to establish
sharia courts and to provide military training to his militia (Al Itihad) or set up
military training programmes. While there he also met with representatives of the
Ogaden Liberation Front (OLF) and ONLF. Some were militia leaders who arrived
in Dhusamareeb by aircraft from the State in question in April 2005. Also, during
the last week of April and the end of the second week of May 2005, approximately
three flights transporting 270 trained and equipped ONLF militia arrived in
Dhusamareeb from that State. Most of the shipments of arms provided during the
first part of the period mentioned above were given to Hassan Dahir Aweys, with
the smaller portion going to ONLF.

39. The Monitoring Group also received credible information that the same State
provided another member of the opposition, Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde, with arms by
transporting them to two locations in Middle Shabelle — by aircraft to Baledogle
Airport, near Mogadishu, and by ship to the port of Marka. Both shipments arrived
between 25 March and 10 April 2005. Included among the types of arms in the
shipments were anti-aircraft guns and mines.

40. The Monitoring Group noted above that Sheik Indohaadde and other
opposition leaders from Mogadishu had provided arms to Habsade, opposition
leader in charge of Baidoa, for potential use against TFG forces in the fight for
control of that city on 30 May 2005. Subsequent to the battle, the Monitoring Group
obtained two metal ammunition containers and photographs of other ammunition
containers that were alleged by Monitoring Group sources to have been provided by
the State in question.

41. The Monitoring Group has further learned that an opposition leader and TFG
dissident from Mogadishu travelled to that State during the middle of the mandate
period to make arrangements with authorities there to obtain arms shipments. The
State allegedly promised to give arms only to the opposition and in quantities that
equalled what TFG President Yusuf received from other countries.

42. The Monitoring Group did not mention the State of the region by name
because at the time of the writing of the present report it had not completed its
investigation. However, the Monitoring Group remained convinced that the
information was of sufficient quality and credibility to merit its inclusion in the
report, but without naming the State. The Monitoring Group also believed that
including the information describing the activities of the State in Somalia is
important for a balanced understanding of the overall picture presented in the
present report. As a final note, the Monitoring Group has been made aware of
historical information previously given to the Security Council by the Panel of
Experts relating to a very similar pattern of activity conducted by the same State in
its involvement in the affairs of Somalia.



17

S/2005/625

III. Analysis of trends and patterns of arms embargo violations

A. A pattern of State support

43. The dramatic increase in the number of arms embargo violations during the
current reporting period over that of the previous mandate period is in direct
correlation to the increasingly hostile tensions between TFG and the opposition. The
arms embargo violations originate from two basic sources: illegal arms-trading
networks channelling arms to BAM from outside Somalia and direct State
contributions to TFG or the opposition.

44. The current trend of high-visibility direct support by States of the region, as
noted by the Monitoring Group in the present report, is not new to Somalia. In its
report to the Security Council dated 25 March 2003 (S/2003/223), the Panel of
Experts dealt at length with direct State support in the form of arms shipments to
different factions or opposing sides in Somalia. The Monitoring Group notes that
State support for factions in Somalia during that reporting period became more
visible and more aggressive during the existence of the Transitional National
Government (TNG), from 2000 to August 2003, and its opponent, the Somali
Reconciliation and Restoration Council (SRRC). Much of the State support during
that period was directed to either TNG or SRRC.

45. The Monitoring Group notes a clear parallel in direct State support for TNG
versus SRRC at that time and the current TFG versus the opposition. Direct State
support for both TFG and the opposition during the current reporting period is also
highly visible and aggressive. It also involves virtually the same States of the region
acting in support of their perceived interests. It is also interesting to note that when
TNG disappeared and its opponent, SRRC, correspondingly diminished in
importance, the highly visible and aggressive direct support for key Somali factions
subsided. Currently, as TFG has arrived in the Somali context and an opposition has
also taken a strong position against it, direct State support again plays a key role in
the exacerbation of the Somali situation and arms embargo violations. This proxy
struggle in Somalia by States of the region, each one vying to promote its own
strategic interests, is partly responsible for the failure of TNG and, clearly, partly
responsible for the current predicament of TFG.

B. Status of the Transitional Federal Government and the opposition:
military build-up

46. Since the last mandate ended, in mid-March 2005, the relationship between
TFG and the opposition has seriously worsened, making the likelihood of a severe
military confrontation between the two highly likely. As indicated by the increase in
arms embargo violations and the high-profile and aggressive involvement of States
of the region in support of one side or the other, the level of tension between the two
sides has risen sharply. Both sides are actively preparing for this probable
confrontation. Well-informed Somalis and others who have intimate knowledge of
developments on both sides say, regarding the likelihood of a military confrontation,
that it is not a question of if, but when.

47. In addition to the dramatic increase in arms flows into Somalia, both sides are
also very actively distributing arms and ammunition to their militias, outfitting



18

S/2005/625

militiamen with individual combat gear, obtaining and storing foodstuffs, medicines,
fuel and other necessities for engaging in sustained combat, organizing themselves
into military-style structures, stepping up recruitment and training of militias and
devising strategies and plans to militarily defeat the other side.

48. In addition to the sustained and heavy arms build-up, and the other actions
noted above taken by each side to prepare for violent confrontation with the other,
the fighting between TFG and the opposition over control of Baidoa demonstrates
the serious intent of each side to pursue a military solution to their differences.

49. On the basis of the preparations outlined above, the Monitoring Group also
noted an example of the new level of organization and sophistication demonstrated
by the opposition during the fights with TFG for control of Baidoa. There were two
significant battles for the control of Baidoa. Opposition forces — of Mohamed
Ibrahim Habsade — took control of Baidoa on or about 26 or 27 March by routing
the militias of President Yusuf and Sheik Madobe. Habsade played a central role on
behalf of the opposition in blocking initial TFG moves to relocate there. The battle
for control of Baidoa suggested that opposition elements coordinated their efforts to
overcome TFG forces. Habsade received financial and military support from Atto,
Muse Sudi, Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde and others. On the same day that Habsade took
control of Baidoa, Indohaadde sent militia members and three lorries containing
arms and diesel fuel to Habsade at Baidoa. In spite of the increased supplies of
arms, Habsade remained concerned about the amount of ammunition he had and
questioned whether he had sufficient ammunition to fight the TFG forces, which
were supplied by Ethiopia. As a result, Colonel Barre Aden Shire Hirale (Kismaayo
warlord and (dissident) Minister of Reconstruction and Resettlement in TFG) sent
his militia to support Habsade and located it at Baadheerre, south-west of Baidoa.
At the same time, Indohaadde sent reinforcements to Baledogle Airport, south-east
of Baidoa.

50. Both militia contingents included technicals. On Saturday, 14 May, Habsade
received a shipment of arms, transported in a lorry, for Muse Suudi, Mohamed
Qanyare Afrah, Osman Hassan Ali Atto and Abdirashid Ilqeyte (a businessman)
from Mogadishu. Following the second battle for control of Baidoa, Habsade again
received logistical support from his allies in Mogadishu.

C. Geographic expansion through military action

51. The Monitoring Group has been informed, and believes, that the foregoing
plans for military action are not solely defensive, but also offensive, with each side
having the ultimate objective of trying to absolutely defeat the other and be the
primary power of influence, if not control, in central and southern Somalia.
However, at the time of the preparation of the present report, the situation was a
standoff, accompanied by a lot of harsh rhetoric, with a commensurate rise in
tensions.

52. Somaliland and Puntland aside, central and southern Somalia is the area that is
primarily affected by the military build-up and represents the principal geographic
operational area of TFG and the opposition.

53. As a result of the standoff, a line in the sand has been drawn between the
opposing sides. The area generally encompassing central and southern Somalia has



19

S/2005/625

been split into two parts, approximately described as follows: the area that is most
heavily influenced by TFG is along the border with Ethiopia and includes portions
of the Gedo, Bakool and Hiraan regions; the area that is most heavily influenced by
the opposition includes portions of the Lower and Middle Juba, Bay, Lower and
Middle Shabelle, Mogadishu and Galgaduud regions. The virtual line in the sand
extends diagonally from south-west to north-east, effectively splitting central and
southern Somalia into two parts.

54. With the exception of the small TFG enclave of influence that has, at the time
of writing, been established in Mohamed Dheere’s area of Jowhar, Middle Shabelle,
both sides have developed military-style strategies and plans to extend their
respective areas of influence, each desiring to push the line in the sand to a position
more in their favour. Accordingly, the Monitoring Group has learned that TFG
President Yusuf and General Ahmed Naji, Chief of Staff, have devised a military
plan to attack the opposition. They have targeted various geographic locations for
military operations, planning to wrest them from the opposition. These locations
include Baidoa, Marka and Mogadishu. To carry out their plan, they intend to unite
various militias under their control and equip and train them in Fer Fer (Ethiopia)
and Waajid (Bakool region). They expect to have a total force of about 20,000.

55. The opposition does not intend to yield to the control of President Yusuf and
has also been making military preparations to counter the TFG plans. Like TFG, the
opposition has been organizing along military lines with a command and control
structure, combining militias and equipping and training them. It has established
military training camps in the greater Mogadishu area, including at Laanta Buuro
and Hiilweyne, and has sent arms obtained at BAM to these camps. The training at
these locations has been proceeding for several months. The Monitoring Group has
also been informed that the opposition may have established additional training
programmes in the Dhusamareeb area, Galgaduud region, and Dinsoor area, Bay
region. Al Itihad leader, Sheik Hassan Dahir Aweys and Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde are
believed by the Monitoring Group to have organized the latter two training
programmes.

D. Business as usual and fighting to maintain vested interests

56. The establishment of a viable Government in Somalia continues to be the
greatest threat to and fear of those people (members of the different TFG
institutions, warlords, businessmen, traders, religious fundamentalists and others)
that have through years of operating in a lawless territory carved out their own
kingdoms, replete with personal political power and ambitions, military-style
muscle in the form of their own militias and, probably most importantly, the
ongoing accumulation of personal wealth. A Somali Government would
considerably alter this landscape of personal kingdoms. This threat to vested
interests remains the impetus behind the increasing threat of serious violent
confrontation between TFG and the opposition, which is in reality an alliance of
convenience to preserve vested interests.

57. The self-interest of those opposed to the establishment of a bona fide
Government has been a constant, and the Monitoring Group has in its previous
reports laid bare this central problem in Somalia. The problem abides, and the most



20

S/2005/625

conspicuous theme in the present report is the continuing trend of escalating
potential violence in a pattern of protection of entrenched vested interests.

58. The pattern of resolving political differences and protecting interests through
the use of weapons continues and is sustained by the ongoing and rapidly rising
acquisition of arms from sources outside of Somalia in violation of the arms
embargo. The people who are today involved in arms embargo violations and who
constitute the greatest obstacles to peace and stability in Somalia continue to be the
same ones who have been involved in arms embargo violations since the Monitoring
Group began its work early in 2004, with few exceptions.

IV. Financial and maritime activities for revenue generation

A. Local administrations and revenue

59. Taxes are the key source of revenue that allows Governments to promote
development and investment and to provide public services and infrastructure. In
Somalia, almost immediately after the collapse of the central Government, different
factions, clans and groups claimed authority over certain areas and created local
administrations. There are ongoing struggles for the control of municipal and local
taxes, public assets, economic and natural resources and the revenue they generate.
For the purpose of the present report, a local administration can be defined as an
area that may comprise a region, a city or a district where an individual or a group
has de facto governmental and administrative control.

60. With regard to the organization and structure of the local administration, a
single individual may have overall control of one of those areas or a group of them
as shareholders of the revenue generated. In the first instance, the individual is the
administrative head of the area, has the monopoly of force and exercises power
through deputies that report details to him on a daily basis. Deputies supervise a
staff of revenue collectors, who collect taxes and fees from public facilities such as
airports and seaports and private businesses.

61. In the second instance, when a group of individuals exercises administrative
control over a certain area, they share administrative responsibility and revenues.
An example can be used to illustrate this point. Mogadishu has been divided into
areas of control operated by individuals on a daily basis, but to the ultimate benefit
of the group. While an individual may be in charge of supervising the collection of
taxes for the use of an airstrip and ports, another will be in charge of providing
security for the facilities. Revenue collected is pooled and shared by the group. The
amounts obtained by either form of local administration can be considerable, in
many cases worth millions of United States dollars. Portions of the revenue are used
for the procurement of arms and ammunition.

62. Examples of individual and group administrations benefiting from tax revenue
generated from public assets and private business are shown in annex IV. The three
case studies below describe specific local administrations.



21

S/2005/625

B. Local administration of the Lower Juba region and the city
of Kismaayo

63. Kismaayo is the fifth-largest city in Somalia, situated in the Lower Juba
region, in the southern part of the country. The population is estimated at 88,000.
Many of its residents have lived in camps for internally displaced persons since
1992. The main sources of income for the local population are farming, household
chores, stevedoring at the seaport, work at the airport, firewood collection and
charcoal-burning.

64. Colonel Barre Hirale, head of the Juba Valley Alliance (JVA), is the primary
beneficiary of the revenue generated in the Lower Juba region, including the city of
Kismaayo. Income is derived from business taxes and duties imposed at the airport
and seaport of Kismaayo, which make up the majority of the total earnings.

65. Colonel Hirale exercises overall control over the local administration. He has
an organization of subordinates that assist him in carrying out administrative
activities in both the city of Kismaayo and the remainder of the Lower Juba region.
To administer the region, Colonel Hirale appointed a Chairman, a District
Commissioner and a Mayor of Kismaayo. To ensure control of his administration,
he relies on a sizeable militia, a military commander and a deputy to assist him.
Both civilian and military organizations have their headquarters in Kismaayo, with
representatives spread throughout the region. He uses revenue generated through his
local administration to purchase arms for his militia.

66. Due to the primary importance of the Kismaayo airport and seaport for
revenue generation, Colonel Hirale has, as of the writing of the present report,
undertaken to revamp the physical infrastructure of the facilities of both ports and is
reorganizing the administration and making staff improvements. A system of local
officers is in charge of collecting revenue at both the seaport and airport. They wear
uniforms, use official stationery and have recently established auditing systems. The
airport is controlled by a supervisor who has a staff of about 11 customs and
revenue officers, 5 immigration officers and other personnel. The customs house at
the airport has been revamped, and a permanent staff of officers has been on duty
since May 2005.

67. The seaport has a supervisor, seven customs and revenue officers, three or four
immigration officers and three dock captains. Although these officers are under the
administrative structure of the city of Kismaayo, the airport and seaport supervisors
report the amount of revenue collected on a daily basis directly to Colonel Barre
Hirale.

Kismaayo seaport

68. A deep-water port on the Indian Ocean, Kismaayo has large docks situated on
a peninsula outside the town. Income is generated from taxes on imports, exports
and berthing at the seaport. The Monitoring Group has learned that revenue
collected from January to April 2005 is as shown in table 1.



22

S/2005/625

Table 1
Revenue from Kismaayo seaport, January-April 2005
(United States dollars)

Import taxa Export taxb Berth tax Total

January 23 522.00 234 881.00 32 200.00 290 603.00

February 95 479.00 233 055.00 44 900.00 373 434.00

March 35 909.50 253 648.00 32 900.00 322 457.50

April 146 720.00 235 049.00 29 800.00 411 569.00

Total 301 630.50 956 633.00 139 800.00 1 398 063.50

a Imports consist primarily of sugar, rice, flour and other miscellaneous goods.
b Exports consist primarily of charcoal and scrap metal.

69. Charcoal accounts for 99.7 per cent of the export taxes collected at Kismaayo
seaport, while scrap metal accounts for the remaining 0.3 per cent. On average, 18
vessels berth at Kismaayo seaport per month. Of those, only two or three are cargo
ships, while the rest are dhows. Most of the ships and dhows come to Kismaayo
from the United Arab Emirates, while the varied destinations of the ships and dhows
include India, Yemen and Saudi Arabia.

Kismaayo Airport

70. Kismaayo Airport, formerly an international airport under the regime of Siad
Barre, is located 10 kilometres north-east of the city. Colonel Barre Hirale’s
immigration and customs officers collect fees from passengers and from traders
dealing in khat. Most of the revenue collected is from the import of khat.

Table 2
Revenue from Kismaayo Airport
(United States dollars)

Description Item amount Estimated monthly revenue

Passenger entry/exit tax (not applicable
for Somalis) 20.00 2 passengers x 30 days = 1 200.00

Landing tax (per aircraft) 200.00 2 flights x 30 days = 12 000.00

Khat import tax (25-kilogram bag) 12.50 120 bags x 30 days = 45 000.00

Total 58 200.00

71. According to reports, two flights carrying 60 bags of khat each land at
Kismaayo airport per day. However, the figures may vary due to changes in the
frequency of flights, weather conditions and other variables.



23

S/2005/625

C. Local administration of Middle Shabelle and the city of Jowhar

72. Jowhar is located 90 kilometres north of Mogadishu and has an estimated
population of about 100,000. It is the capital city of the Middle Shabelle region.
Mohamed Dheere is the self-declared Governor of Middle Shabelle and “Chairman”
of the city of Jowhar and exercises authoritarian control of his local administration.

73. The city of Jowhar has a well-organized system of revenue collection. The
administration of Jowhar consists of a chairman (Mohamed Dheere), a vice-
chairman, a secretary and a council of elders. This structure has been established
and exists as a formality in order to comply with the requests from leaders of local
clans. However, it is de facto superseded by Dheere’s authoritarian leadership style.
Additionally, Dheere relies on his militia to ensure control of his local
administration. Large portions of the revenue are reportedly used to maintain his
militia, including for the purchase of arms and ammunition.

Revenue from businesses and entry taxes

74. To gather local revenue in the city of Jowhar, Mohamed Dheere has appointed
a Mayor and local staff, including revenue officers. Their main function is to collect
taxes from the municipality. To facilitate the task, they use vehicles to make daily
rounds according to a timetable: Monday, north; Tuesday, south; Wednesday, east;
and Thursday, west.

75. Taxes are collected from a variety of businesses conducting activities
including telecommunications, money remittances, livestock marketing (goats and
sheep) and farming (products such as mangoes, oranges and cooking oil). Revenue
officers report the result of their activities daily to the Mayor, who in turn has to
inform Dheere directly of the results.

76. Jowhar is located on the primary north-south highway in Somalia and, as a
result, is a mandatory transit point for traffic in south-central Somalia. Jowhar
receives vehicle traffic from Mogadishu and other important eastern locations and
from inland locations to the north and west. For example, it receives most of the
commodities coming from the inland city of Beletweyne (Hiraan region).
Information indicates that there is a large slaughterhouse in Beletweyne that has
cold storage facilities with capacity for storing up to 2,000 lamb carcasses to be
exported from Somalia. The carcasses are transported from Beletweyne to
Mogadishu via Jowhar, where tax is paid at the entry point of the Jowhar local
administration.

77. Reports indicate that the city has at least four entry points, each with four or
five individuals in charge of collecting an entry tax at every point. All passenger
vehicles and lorries carrying goods must pay a tax.

D. Local administration of Lower Shabelle

78. Sheik Yusuf Indohaadde is in charge of the local administration of Lower
Shabelle; he assumes the role of governor. Indohaadde’s headquarters and state
house are located at Buulamarer, situated on a large, active banana farm north-west
of Marka.



24

S/2005/625

79. The geographical area under his control includes the seaports of Marka and
Baraawe — he has his own fishing fleet — and an airport at Marka. The local
administration also includes prime agricultural lands — including numerous “drug
farms” on lands that were taken from the local farmers.

80. In order to exercise control over his geographical area, Indohaadde has his
own militia, made up of men from his clan, and other militias from the same clan
group, Hawiye. Indohaadde also has a large number of personal bodyguards,
individuals who are most trusted from his own clan.

Tax revenue

81. Revenue for Indohaadde’s arms purchases comes from traders, businessmen,
the Marka and Baraawe seaports, the airports, checkpoints, farms, NGOs, the
fishing fleet and other sources. Indohaadde’s representatives collect taxes on a
weekly basis. Every month, from the moneys collected, he pays militia members, his
“inner circle” (advisers and closest associates) and the elders of the clan and makes
purchases of arms. After those payments are made, the remainder, which is
approximately equivalent to $50,000, reverts to Indohaadde himself.

82. Indohaadde collects revenue from NGOs that want to operate in the area under
his control; they must obtain Indohaadde’s permission and must pay him a sum of
money to conduct their activities. He receives at least 15 per cent of any NGO
benefits that are offered to the local population. The fees paid by an NGO for the
buildings they use are split between the owner and Indohaadde. He has a say in the
question of which Somalis work for NGOs — members of his own clan — and gets
part of an employee’s salary. He also has a network of people that monitor the
activities of NGOs to ensure their compliance with his financial interests. If an NGO
does not comply with his requirements, he forces it to leave his area.

83. Indohaadde also owns drug farms in the area under his control, including at
Janaale, Shalambood, Qoryooley, Buulamarer and Kurtun Waarey; the exact number
of farms is unknown, but Monitoring Group sources estimated that as many as 10
may be spread throughout his area. He is alleged to be dealing in marijuana
(probably in the form of hashish).

84. Indohaadde’s drug farms are a sophisticated operation involving irrigation
systems, fertilizers and herbicides. The workers on the farms are experienced in the
drug-growing business and receive a good salary to maintain the high quality of the
drugs. The drugs undergo a drying process and are packaged and concealed to avoid
attracting attention. The product is graded: poorer-quality product is sent to
Mogadishu and neighbouring countries for local consumption, while the higher-
quality product is put into trucks and transported to airstrips or the Marka seaport
for further transport to the international market.

85. There are about six harvests per year. Indohaadde is expanding his drug-
farming operation, by increasing either the number of farms or production per farm.
He allegedly receives a total of approximately $100,000 per harvest for all of the
farms. Indohaadde has a “special representative” who handles drug-farm operations
on his behalf and uses his militia to guard his drug farms.



25

S/2005/625

E. Maritime activities and revenue: charcoal, fisheries and piracy

86. The Somali coastline is 3,333 sea miles in length, with an exclusive economic
zone that extends 200 miles offshore. Somalia continues to be without an effective
central Government to control and administer its coastal waters. As a result, Somali
coastal waters are under the control of a number of different local administrations or
self-appointed militias, led by a faction leader.

87. This patchwork control of the Somali maritime environment has created or
promoted three significant income generators for local administrations: (a) the
export from Somalia of, among other commodities, large commercial quantities of
charcoal, (b) unrestrained foreign access to Somali marine resources and fisheries
by foreign fishing vessels and (c) widespread piracy.

Charcoal

88. There are no regularly scheduled shipping services to Somalia, but individual
ships from anywhere in the region, or the world, carry cargo to or from any of the
more significant Somali seaports — Kismaayo, El Ma’an, Marka, El Adde
(Mogadishu), Berbera and Bossaso. The Monitoring Group has learned that each of
the these ports is controlled by a local administration, as defined above in the
present report, that demands the payment of royalties by importers and exporters of
goods and the payment of protection money while a vessel is in Somali coastal
waters. Arrangements for the protection of a vessel are made by a vessel owner or
operator through the services of an agent who works on behalf of a local
administration. At the port of departure an advance payment is made to the agent,
who then arranges for a clearance for the vessel at the port of arrival. This fee also
guarantees a vessel’s protection while in Somali waters. Dhows and general cargo
ships that use the above-mentioned ports are subject to the payment of these fees.
Large cargo ships using the ports typically transport livestock, scrap metal or
charcoal.

89. The charcoal trade has been mentioned in past reports of the Monitoring Group
and the Panel of Experts as a considerable source of revenue for factions engaged in
arms embargo violations. Its relevancy is particularly important in the south-central
regions of Somalia. Major markets for charcoal originating in Somalia are Saudi
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, where businesses do a lucrative trade
in the commodity. It is also a means to obtain United States dollars through the
foreign-exchange process.

90. Ports in Somalia where charcoal is known to be exported are Kismaayo (the
largest quantity), El Ma’an, located 30 kilometres north of Mogadishu, and El Adde,
the local seaport of Mogadishu.



26

S/2005/625

Table 3
Gross revenue from charcoal exports through Kismaayo, El Ma’an and El Adde
seaports from January to April 2005

January February March April Total

Quantity (metric
tons) 8 485.1 5 972.6 4 698 10 128 29 283.7

Average price
(United States
dollars) 200 200 200 200 200

Kismaayo
seaport

Revenue (United
States dollars) 1 697 020 1 194 520 939 600 2 025 600 5 856 740

March June Total

Quantity (metric
tons) 1 025 9 513 10 538

Average price
(United States
dollars) 200 200 200

El Ma’an
seaport

Revenue (United
States dollars) 205 000 1 902 600 2 107 600

March Total

Quantity (metric
tons) 1 025 1 025

Average price
(United States
dollars) 200 200

El Adde
seaport

Revenue (United
States dollars) 205 000 205 000

91. Even though the charcoal trade is linked to the livelihood of some workers in
the areas of production, the overwhelming majority of the profits generated in
Somalia will remain in the hands of those in charge of the local administrations, not
the people that produce charcoal, who are very poorly paid for their labour. The
following are the different stages involved in the process:

(a) Production: cutting, burning and bagging (Somalia);

(b) Collection: gathering product, loading onto lorries and delivering to
seaports (Somalia);

(c) Trading: shipping costs, sales price negotiation, terms of sales (Somalia);

(d) Importation: wholesale and retail businesses (foreign country).

92. The price associated with each stage of production and collection is estimated
at $0.30 per 25-kilogram bag. At the trading stage, (c) above, at the port of loading,
the actual price is at $1.50 per 25-kilogram bag (including transport fees from the
collection point to the port). The final sales price is $5 per 25-kilogram bag or $200
per metric ton (at the port of Kismaayo). The wholesale price at the importation
stage, (d) above, is not known by the Monitoring Group. However, the retail price
(price to the consumer) at stage (d) of the same 25-kilogram bag is $15 to $20.



27

S/2005/625

93. The Monitoring Group has learned that those in charge of the local
administration in Somalia are in charge of the stages of production, collection and
trading, and as a result will receive the great majority of the profits generated; any
collateral benefits accruing to the local population are negligible. A portion of the
profits will be used to buy arms and reinforce the security apparatus of the militias
of the local administration. As an example, in May 2005 it was reported that
Colonel Barre Hirale contributed funds and logistical military support to Mohamed
Ibrahim Habsade in his fight with TFG forces for control of Baidoa.

Fisheries

94. Foreign fishing vessels have open access to Somali coastal waters. The
commercial fishing industry is driven principally by foreign interests. Local Somali
administrations, or faction leaders conclude licensing arrangements with foreign
countries, companies or individual fishing vessels. Somalia coastal waters offer
significant potential for exploitation of marine resources, which include very rich
fishing grounds. Seasonal variations are considerable, November and March being
the peak times for fish harvesting.

95. Previous studies conducted by various countries and international agencies
have estimated an annual catch of 300,000 tons of fish and 10,000 tons of
crustaceans. The varieties landed are tuna, bonito, mackerel, squid, shark, lobster
and shrimp. There is especially high demand in foreign markets for tuna, shark,
lobster and shrimp.

96. Estimates indicate that before the collapse of the Siad Barre Government in
1991, fisheries were one of the largest generators of revenue, estimated at $20
million per year. Today the exact amounts received by the numerous local
administrations from foreign operators for marine fisheries production, generally, or
the issuance of marine fishing licenses, in particular, are difficult to establish.
However, according to a study completed by the Marine Resources Assessment
Group, Ltd., London, entitled, Review of Impacts of Illegal, Unreported and
Unregulated Fishing on Developing Countries, Synthesis Report, published in June
2005, about $90 million is the estimated annual value of illegal and pirate fishing in
the exclusive economic zones of the case-study countries for 2003 and 2004.

97. The following case study is indicative of the type of fishing activity carried out
in Somali coastal waters by some foreign fishing operations in concert with a local
administration (port of El Ma’an). The motor fishing vessel Alpha Serengeti is based
at Mombasa, Kenya. In November 2004, the owners selected a crew and advised
crew members that they would be fishing in Kenyan waters off the coastal cities of
Lamu and Malindi. The vessel left the port of Mombasa on 25 November and had
sailed for about 18 hours when the crew was informed by the vessel’s captain that
they were actually destined for Somalia. The captain told the crew that they would
be fishing in areas declared to be a “war zone”. The crew members were then
compelled to sign contracts, drawn up by a Mombasa business, that included the
stipulation that they agreed to work in a war-zone country — Somalia.

98. On 30 November the vessel docked at the port of El Ma’an, north of
Mogadishu. The crew was not allowed to go ashore. During the next couple of days
local Somalis brought on board a gun, which was mounted on the upper deck of the
Alpha Serengeti. An analysis of a photograph of the gun suggested that it was a
modified version of the 20mm Single Mark 4 anti-aircraft gun that was used



28

S/2005/625

extensively during the Second World War. The vessel left the port on 2 December
and fished the coastal waters between Mogadishu and Kismaayo. They caught and
processed crustaceans and a variety of fish. During this fishing trip the Somali
merchant vessel Soul Sea replenished the Alpha Serengeti with supplies. The Soul
Sea is also armed, with a much bigger gun, and often accompanied the Alpha
Serengeti as an “armed escort”. There were other “friendly” vessels fishing in the
same area. On 16 January, the Alpha Serengeti opened fire on two unidentified
fishing vessels that apparently had intruded into its fishing zone. The other vessels
responded with small-arms fire. There were no hits on either side, and the other
vessels left the area at high speed.

99. The fish caught were processed and packed in boxes labelled “produce of
Kenya” and were alleged to be illegally destined for the international market. This
allegation is based on the fact that foreign inspectors have carried out inspections of
the Alpha Serengeti. The Monitoring Group learned that during these inspections the
owners provide all the necessary safety and hygiene gear to satisfy the stringent
conditions laid down by the importers, but all this is withdrawn as soon as the
inspection is over. The Monitoring Group also learned that the Alpha Serengeti was
approved by the European Union (EU) as a freezer vessel, as per European
Commission decision 2004/39/EC of 14 January 2004 (approval No. 13/WB/KEN).
An individual by the name of Abdullahi Ali Mohammed facilitated the fishing
arrangements described above (with the local Somali administration), using a front
company operating out of Dubai under the name Coral Coast Trading. The
Monitoring Group has brought the facts of this case study to the attention of the EU
office in Kenya.

Piracy

100. Somalia’s coastal and offshore waters are dangerous for the innocent passage
of fishing vessels, traditional boats, yachts and commercial vessel traffic. Piracy off
the coast of Somalia is causing a great deal of concern to the shipping world. Somali
waters now have a fearsome reputation and have been classified as some of the
world’s most dangerous by both the International Maritime Bureau and International
Maritime Organization. The main motive behind acts of piracy in Somali waters
appears to be an attempt by local administrations or individual warlords and militias
to obtain large sums of money through ransom demands.

101. The pirates off the coast of Somalia are trained fighters, often dressed in
military fatigues, using speedboats equipped with satellite phones and Global
Positioning System equipment. They are typically armed with automatic weapons,
anti-tank rocket launchers (shoulder-fired) and various types of grenades.

102. The hijacking of the merchant vessel Semlow is an example of an act of piracy
that occurred during the mandate period. The Semlow, a Kenyan cargo ship, on
charter to the World Food Programme to carry tsunami relief supplies to Somalia,
was hijacked off the Somali coast on 26 June 2005. The ship had set sail from
Mombasa on 23 June and was headed for Bossaso, Puntland. The captain, aware of
the dangers of piracy in Somali waters, set a course that was at least 40 miles from
the Somalia shoreline and well out of sight of land. Early on the morning of 26 June,
however, two speedboats appeared from nowhere and seized the ship and crew, after
menacing them with rifle fire.



29

S/2005/625

103. As of the writing of the present report, the Semlow, along with its crew,
remains captive. A ransom demand of $500,000 has been made by those responsible
for the hijacking.

104. Another example of a pirated ship is that of the merchant vessel Feisty Gas, a
liquefied petroleum gas tanker. On 10 April 2005, Somali pirates seized the ship and
crew. The pirates then guided the ship close to the Somali coastline and anchored it
within sight of land. The owner of the ship, a company based in Hong Kong, started
negotiations with the hijackers. The Hong Kong company subsequently wired
money to a local shipping company through a bank in Mombasa, Kenya, and sent
one of its representatives to Mombasa on 18 April. The Hong Kong agent met the
representative of the hijackers at various locations in Mombasa and paid the ransom
of $315,000 in the following instalments: on 20 April, $150,000; on 22 April,
$150,000; and on 25 April, $15,000.

105. From January through July 2005, incidents of piracy in Somali coastal waters
have been fairly common and are listed in annex V. That list is not complete. The
actual extent of piracy is very difficult to gauge; there may have been other cases
that have gone unreported, since many shipping companies do not report incidents
of piracy for fear of raising their insurance premiums and prompting protracted,
time-consuming investigations. The same is true of ransoms paid. Ship owners and
companies do not want to divulge any information regarding the amount of money
paid for the release of ships and crews.

V. Capacity-building

106. Capacity-building can be defined2 as efforts aimed at developing human skills
or societal infrastructures within a community or organization needed to reduce the
level of risk.3 In extended understanding, capacity-building also includes the
development of institutional, financial, political and other resources, such as
technology at different levels and sectors of society. The Monitoring Group notes,
however, that the lack of an established central Government in Somalia and the
current elevated threat of widespread hostilities has severely retarded, if not put on
hold for the time being, serious countrywide capacity-building efforts.

107. Nevertheless, plans do exist to proceed with capacity-building in Somalia at
the appropriate time — in the financial sector, for example, as follows.

108. The Financial Sector Development Project is one of the most significant plans,
with an estimated duration of two years, from 2004 to 2006. Its main focus is on
strengthening the Somali remittance sector to increase its compliance with
international financial regulations and laying the groundwork for the entry of a
formal commercial banking sector.

109. Additional projects include support for the establishment of the office of the
comptroller general of Somalia, the creation of a central bank and the development
of the revenue-generation initiative. With regard to financial services, the
Monitoring Group has learned that some projects have been accomplished, or are
currently ongoing, with the support of the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) office in Somalia, the European Commission and the World Bank.



30

S/2005/625

VI. Coordination with neighbouring States and other
organizations

A. Neighbouring States

Yemen

110. On the invitation of the Government of Yemen, arms experts travelled to
Yemen during the second week of August. Meetings were conducted with the
Deputy Minister for Europe, the Americas and International Organizations, the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Interior. Discussions centred on
three topics: (a) the seizure by Yemeni authorities of a contraband arms shipment
that was being transported by a dhow across the Gulf of Aden and destined for
Somalia, and arms smuggling networks, in general, (b) the Government’s strategies
and plans for dealing with illegal arms and (c) round-trip flights by Government
military aircraft from Yemen to Somalia during July 2005. The Yemeni authorities
were very cooperative during the discussions, providing information that was most
helpful to the work of the Monitoring Group. Subsequent to the meetings, the
Yemeni authorities provided the Monitoring Group with a formal reply, dated
15 August 2005, to the questions that were discussed during the visit. Their replies
on topics (a) and (c) above have already been incorporated elsewhere in the present
report. Their response on topic (b) — the Government’s strategies and plans for
dealing with illegal arms (i.e., paragraph 3 (b) of the mandate: to assess actions
taken by Somali authorities, as well as other Member States, in particular those in
the region, to implement fully the arms embargo;) — is as follows:

“There is no body that sponsors arms-smuggling from Yemen to Somalia,
inasmuch as it is an offence punishable by law. Moreover, since, for the
reasons previously stated, citizens have various light and medium weapons in
their possession and the Ministry of the Interior is the authority responsible for
maintaining public security, order, tranquillity and morality and for protecting
lives, honour and property, that Ministry has sought to curb the illicit arms-
trafficking and smuggling through various means, as follows:

“I. In the legal sphere

“A bill amending the Arms Act has been tabled and is currently before
the House of Representatives. Through this bill, the Government is seeking to
limit domestic arms trade and prevent the transfer of arms to third States.

“II. In the maritime sphere

“Using available resources, the Coastguard Department is engaged in
securing the Yemeni coasts by conducting marine patrols to check for any
possible breaches occurring by sea. It has endeavoured to expand its activity
by preparing a Department work plan for the years 2006-2007, with United
States assistance and expertise. The aim is to develop the work of the
Department to include the security aspects necessary for securing part of the
coastal strip in accordance with the Department’s phased plan, as part of
Yemen’s counter-terrorism efforts. This requires considerable material
resources, which we are seeking to obtain through support from friendly
States, primarily the United States of America, inasmuch as Yemen is a partner



31

S/2005/625

in combating terrorism. An English-language copy of the Department plan is
annexed hereto.

“III. On land

“The first phase of the plan to collect medium and heavy weapons and
ban their possession has been implemented through the following:

“(a) The purchase, from citizens, of dangerous weapons, including
should-fired missiles and medium and light machine guns, to which end a total
of 10 billion Yemeni riyals has been spent. This affects the budget earmarked
for development, inasmuch it represents an additional burden on the State
budget;

“(b) Assistance from the United States of America in the purchase from
citizens of certain dangerous weapons, including shoulder-fired missiles, as
well as the collection and destruction of a number of weapons under the
supervision of United States experts to ensure their lawful disposal;

“(c) The preparation of the second phase of the weapons-collection plan,
which comprises the following four stages:

“(i) Preparing for the weapons-collection process by gathering
information on persons in possession of weapons and determining the
right time to implement the plan;

“(ii) Establishing implementation programmes for the plan through:

“– Determination of the weapons to be taken in and the appropriate
amount of compensation for each;

“– Elaboration of information programmes that explain the importance
of surrendering weapons, considered as something uncivilized and a
primary factor in the perpetration of most crimes;

“– Issuance of a proclamation by the Ministry of the Interior calling on
citizens to cooperate and participate in the implementation of the
weapons-collection plan, setting a schedule for implementation and
stating that immediately upon the expiration of the time limit set for
the voluntary surrender of weapons against the compensation fixed
by the competent committee, the Government will begin to carry
out search and investigation procedures for weapons and persons in
possession of weapons and to apply the laws in force;

“(iii) Commencing implementation in the field through tightened security
measures at entry/exit points and in coastal areas and other places where
arms-smuggling offences are likely to be committed;

“(iv) Upon the expiry of the deadline, carrying out procedures for
information-gathering on weapons and procedures for confiscation
conducted in coordination with the judicial authorities.



32

S/2005/625

“Inasmuch as all these aspects represent additional burdens that will
affect development efforts, it is essential to seek support for the
implementation of this phase. It is hoped that support will be forthcoming from
friendly nations, primarily the United States of America, inasmuch as the
measures in question form part of Yemen’s counter-terrorism efforts.”1

111. Furthermore, during discussions in Sana’a, the Minister of Interior provided
the Monitoring Group with a document that includes additional measures involving
the enhanced capacity of the Yemeni Coast Guard to more effectively combat the
arms-trading networks operating between Yemen and Somalia.

Kenya, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Djibouti

112. In accordance with paragraph 3 (b) of the mandate, the Monitoring Group also
sought information from Kenya, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Djibouti regarding actions
that they have taken to comply with and implement the arms embargo. Accordingly,
the Monitoring Group sent letters to those countries soliciting their response by
30 September 2005.

Somalia

113. The coordinator of the Monitoring Group attempted on three occasions to meet
TFG Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi, but Gedi’s office failed to respond with
arrangements for a meeting. However, the Monitoring Group did meet with Hussein
Aideed, the Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, to discuss his concern
about lifting the arms embargo. The Minister stressed that, in order for the Somali
people to survive and the peace process to be given a chance, the arms embargo not
only had to be upheld, it needed to be strengthened. The Monitoring Group also met
with members of the opposition, who made it clear that the final goal was the
removal of President Yusuf and to control the TFG institutions.

B. Other organizations

114. The Monitoring Group has had contacts and exchanged views with the Group
of Experts on the Democratic Republic of the Congo established pursuant to
resolution 1533 (2004) and the Al-Qaida/Taliban Monitoring Team established
pursuant to resolution 1526 (2004). Members of the Monitoring Group also met on
several occasions with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for
Somalia, François Lonseny Fall, during which they exchanged views and
information.

115. The Monitoring Group also conducted meetings with representatives of the
UNDP and FAO offices in Somalia, who expressed their desire to cooperate with the
Monitoring Group in developing proposals for interdicting illegal, uncontrolled and
unregulated fishing in the Somali exclusive economic zone and preventing the
export of charcoal. They also acknowledged that it was essential that such proposals
be considered for possible additional measures to strengthen the effectiveness of the
arms embargo.



33

S/2005/625

VII. Conclusions and recommendations

A. Conclusions

116. The current mandate period has been marked by a dramatic rise in the numbers
of arms embargo violations, which have involved 10 Ministers and the President of
TFG. This rise in the number of violations corresponds to an ongoing militarization
of central and southern Somalia. Both TFG and the opposition are making military-
style preparations, with the apparent intent of engaging each other in violent
hostilities. The political process has apparently taken a back seat to these military
preparations.

117. The Bakaraaha Arms Market in Mogadishu has continued throughout the
current mandate period to play a major role as an intermediary for channelling arms
to members of the opposition and others in violation of the arms embargo. It is an
important factor in the continued destabilization of Somalia. Another new and
important element contributing to the continued instability of Somalia during the
mandate period has been the direct arms support by States in the region for either
TFG or the opposition. Their support has also exacerbated the level of tension
between the two sides, leading to increased militarization and the threat of
widespread violence in central and southern Somalia.

118. Due to the high level of tension between TFG and the opposition, and the
resulting greatly increased arms flows into Somalia, the Monitoring Group proposes
that the Security Council consider a new approach to deal with arms embargo
violations. The Monitoring Group has devised an approach that is designed to
enhance the effectiveness of the arms embargo. The new concept is best described
as an integrated arms embargo. It incorporates financial and maritime aspects and is
intended to reduce the funds available to local Somali administrations run by
dissident TFG Ministers — former warlords — who use the money to buy arms. The
integrated arms embargo concept is detailed below.

B. Recommendations: an integrated arms embargo approach

119. Considering the totality of the information contained in the previous reports of
the Panel of Experts and the Monitoring Group, as well as the present report, and
the current chaotic situation in Somalia, the Monitoring Group proposes that the
Security Council consider adopting and implementing the concept of an integrated
arms embargo. The Monitoring Group believes that an integrated arms embargo is
needed at this time in view of the uncontrolled and dramatic rise in arms flows into
Somalia and in the number of corresponding arms embargo violations.

120. The Monitoring Group defines the concept of the integrated arms embargo as a
process that involves the following aspects:

(a) Reaffirming and sustaining the arms embargo on Somalia, in accordance
with Security Council resolution 733 (1992), paragraph 5;

(b) Implementing a trade embargo on the export of charcoal originating in
Somalia;

(c) Implementing a ban on foreign vessels fishing in Somali waters and a
trade embargo on the export of fish taken in Somali waters.



34

S/2005/625

121. The purpose of the approach outlined above is to enhance the overall
effectiveness of the enforcement of the arms embargo on Somalia by reducing the
funds available for those local administrations, warlords and others that have been
engaged in the purchase of arms in violation of the embargo. The desired effect is to
stem the unrestrained flow of arms into Somalia by key arms embargo violators —
those who have the gained financial capacity by accruing revenue, in part from
exports of Somali charcoal and the issuance of fishing rights to foreign businesses
for fishing in the exclusive economic zone in Somalia.

122. The proposal will depend on cooperation among States in the international
community to ban and impose embargoes on illegal and unregulated activities not
controlled by a Government, since it relates to trade with businesses in foreign
countries. Further, the proposal can be implemented and enforced by an agreement
among States in the international community until a Government in Somalia is
properly in place.

123. The proposal is not intended to seriously affect or impose restrictions on
individuals in Somali civil society who are engaged in traditional, domestic and
day-to-day subsistence activities for the purpose of local consumption. The
Monitoring Group recognizes that the proposal will not have an impact on State-
sponsored arms donations to Somalia.

Notes

1 Translation from the original Arabic version provided by the Government of Yemen (see
annex II).

2 International Strategy for Disaster Reduction definition.
3 Risk: the probability of harmful consequences, or expected losses (deaths, injuries, property,

livelihoods, economic activity disrupted or environment damaged) resulting from interactions
between natural or human-induced hazards and vulnerable conditions (International Strategy for
Disaster Reduction definition).



35

S/2005/625

Annex I
Arms purchases and sales at the Bakaraaha Arms Market
investigated during the mandate period

Individual conducting
transaction at the Irtogte
Market

Type and quantity of arms
and date of transaction

Role (supplier/purchaser/
seller)

Mohamed Qanyare Afrah,
businessman and Minister for
National Security in TFG

Ammunition for Zu-23 and
mortar shells
16.03.2005

10 PKM
09.04.2005

2 DShK, and a variety of
ammunition for belted machine
guns and anti-aircraft guns
such as the Zu-23-2 and
Zu-23-4
16.04.2005

Ammunition for mortar and
100 shells for the B-10
06.05.2005

20 AK-47, ammunition for the
Zu-23, ammunition for mortars
and small arms and feeder belts
for machine guns
09.05.2005

50 AK-47, 10 PKM and a
variety of ammunition
11.05.2005

40 AK-47 and ammunition for
Zu-23 and mortars
17.05.2005

50 AK-47, 4 PKM, ammunition
for small arms, mortar and Zu-
23, magazines for AK-47 and
empty belt feeders for PKM
25.05.2005

A variety of ammunition
including 120mm shells
04.06.2005

Purchased the arms through his
representatives Abdi Jilaoow
and Ali Yusuf

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms
through his representatives
Abdi Jilaoow and Ali Yusuf

Purchased the arms

Purchased together with Atto
and Muse Suudi for Habsade

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms



36

S/2005/625

A variety of ammunition
08.06.2005

A variety of ammunition
11.06.2005

3 PKM
16.06.2005

70 AK-47, 10 RPG-2, 4
mortars, 2 DShK and a variety
of ammunition
02.07.2005

A variety of ammunition
03.07.2005

Ammunition for mortars,
Zu-23, DShK, B-10 and ZP-39
09.07.2005

30 AK-47, 7 PKM and 100
RPG-7 grenades
10.07.2005

1 B-10 and a variety of
ammunition
20.07.2005

Ammunition for small and big
arms
06.08.2005

Ammunition for small and big
arms
08.08.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through his
representatives Abdi Jilaoow
and Ali Yusuf

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Tuni clan representative 4 PKM, 2 RPG-7 and
ammunition
09.04.2005

8 PKM
02.05.2005

Purchased the arms. They are
fighting the Sheekhaal sub-clan
over agricultural land in the
Kismaayo area

Purchased the arms

Col Umar “Fiasco” 2 DShK
10.04.2005

Purchased the arms

Bashir Rage
Businessman

100 120mm mortar shells
09.03.2005

Purchased the arms together
with Abdikadir Beebe



37

S/2005/625

1 ZP-39
10.04.2005

1 Zu-23 and ammunition
23.04.2005

Ammunition worth $50,000
28.04.2005

Ammunition
07.05.2005

2 DShK and ammunition for
the Zu-23 and mortars
15.05.2005

80 PKM, ammunition for small
arms
12.06.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms together
with Abukar Omar Adaan and
Deylaaf

Purchased the arms together
with Muse Suudi. They used
their representative Yusuf
Garbood

Purchased the arms through his
representative Yusuf Garbood

This shipment arrived by plane
at Isaley airport, near El
Ma’an. Purpose: sell at BAM

Jaamal Aadan Dheere 1 B-10, 1 Dhuunshilke one-
barrel anti-aircraft gun and
4 RPG-7
11.04.2005

Purchased the arms

Marihaan clan representative 1 Dhuunshilke
11.04.2005

Many AK-47
21.06.2005

Purchased the arms. Fighting
the Garre sub-clan about cattle
theft. Around El Wa’aq area

Purchased the arms

Saleeban clan representative 2 DShK, 2 B-10, 8 PKM and a
variety of ammunition
06.03.2005

50 AK-47 and a variety of
ammunition
14.03.2005

1 Zu-23 and ammunition
12.04.2005

Purchased the arms.
Fighting the Sa’ad sub-clan in
central Somalia
(Galgaduud/Mudug)
concerning killing of elders

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Abdikarim Farah Laqanyo,
“President” of “Midland”

Variety of ammunition
12.04.2005

1 Dhuunshilke and 1 DShK
02.05.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms by selling
at BAM (small) arms received
from Ethiopia



38

S/2005/625

Muse Suudi Yalahow,
Minister of Commerce in TFG

1 DShK and a variety of
ammunition, mostly for the
Zu-23
13.04.2005

100 120mm shells
22.04.2005

Ammunition
07.05.2005

45 AK-47, a variety of
ammunition, ammunition
pouches and belts and feeder
belts for machine guns
08.05.2005

Ammunition, battle clothing and
load-bearing equipment
09.05.2005

50 AK-47, 10 PKM and a
variety of ammunition
11.05.2005

A variety of ammunition but
mainly 120mm mortar shells
17.05.2005

50 AK-47, magazines for AK-
47, ammunition boxes, empty
belt feeders for the PKM, belts
for militiamen and a variety of
ammunition
25.05.2005

A variety of ammunition
08.06.2005

2 80mm mortars and a variety of
ammunition
03.07.2005

1 ZP-39
11.07.2005

A variety of ammunition
including for Zu-23, DShK, ZP-
39, mortars, B-10 and RPG-7
03.08.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms together
with Bashir Rage. They used
their representative Yusuf
Garbood

Purchased the arms. Destination
“reserve force” outside
Mogadishu

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms together
with Qanyare and Atto for
Habsade

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms for the
“reserve force” located at Laanta
Buuro (Mogadishu)

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms



39

S/2005/625

Omar Muhammad Mohamud
“Finish”,
Minister for Religion and
Endowments in TFG. Controls
the Mogadishu seaport

1 B-10
13.04.2005

1 DShK and a variety of
ammunition
05.06.2005

Ammunition
11.06.2005

1 DShK and 1 Dhuunshilke
18.06.2005

1 DShK and ammunition
06.07.2005

Purchased the arms through a
representative of Qanyare

Purchased the arms. He also
ordered at the same time arms
that were not available at the
market

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through his
representative Ismaan Umar

Purchased the arms

Mohamed Ibrahim Habsade,
MP, in control of Baidoa

2 B-10, 15 PKM and
ammunition
12.03.2005

1 ZP-39
14.04.2005

70 AK-47, 7 PKM, 2 DShK,
ammunition for Zu-23, B-10,
mortar shells and ammunition for
small arms
26.04.2005

45 AK-47, 10 RPG-2, 9 PKM
and a variety of ammunition
21.05.2005

50 AK-47 and a variety of
ammunition
26.05.2005

Large quantity of ammunition
30.05.2005

A variety of ammunition
14.06.2005

40 AK-47, 5 PKM and a variety
of ammunition
01.08.2005

15 AK-47, 6 PKM and 8 RPG-7
14.08.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through the
representative of Indohaadde

Arms bought at the BAM were
supplied to Habsade by unknown
purchasers. Note: possibly from
opposition allies. Middleman
was Indohaadde’s representative

Purchased by Habsade via
Mohamed Hassan (representative
of Indohaadde)

Purchased by Habsade via
Mohamed Hassan (representative
of Indohaadde)

Received from Indohaadde via
his representative Mohamed
Hassan

Bought by Indohaadde for
Habsade

Purchased by Habsade via
Mohamed Hassan (representative
of Indohaadde)

Purchased by Habsade via
Mohamed Hassan (representative
of Indohaadde)



40

S/2005/625

Barre Aden Shire “Hirale”,
Minister for Reconstruction and
Resettlement in TFG,
in charge of Kismaayo port

9 PKM and ammunition for the
ZP-39, Zu-23, B-10 and small
weapons
14.04.2005

2 DShK and ammunition for Zu-
23 and ZP-39
16.07.2005

1 ZP-39
18.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through his
representative Usman Umar

Purchased the arms

Abukar Omar Adaan,
Businessman

2 B-10 and a variety of
ammunition for heavy weapons
(anti-aircraft and anti-tank)
16.04.2005

Ammunition worth $50,000
28.04.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased together with Bashir
Rage and Deylaaf

BAM traders 8 DShK, 100 AK-47, 50 PKM
and ammunition, mostly mortar
shells
08.03.2005

240 pistols, 35 AK-47, 90 PKM
and a variety of ammunition
including mortar shells
15.03.2005

180 AK-47 and a variety of
ammunition, especially for the
Zu-23
19.04.2005

An arms shipment worth $75,000
06.05.2005

600 AK-47, 50 PKM, 80 RPG-2
and a variety of ammunition
15.05.2005

160 AK-47, 20 PKM, 16 RPG-2
and a variety of ammunition
18.05.2005

Imported arms to BAM

From Yemen (arms-trading
network) via Bossaso

Imported arms to BAM

This shipment from Bossaso via
Galkayo was ambushed at Bulo
Burto by members of the
Gaaljeel clan

This shipment from Yemen
(arms-trading network),
transported via Bossaso and
Galkayo and Beletweyne, took
one month to arrive at Irtogte
due to controls on the route,
especially between Yemen and
Somalia

Supplied by traders from Irtogte
to the arms market at Qoryooley
(south-west of Marka)



41

S/2005/625

500 AK-47, 100 PKM, 120 RPG-
2, 3 Zu-23, 15 DShK, 12
Dhuunshilke, 20 120mm
mortars, 6 B-10 and a variety of
ammunition
22.05.2005

110 AK-47
28.05.2005

250 AK-47, 8 PKM, 2 Zu-23, 10
B-10, 50 RPG-2 and a variety of
ammunition
04.07.2005

A number of pistols, RPG-2,
PKM and a variety of
ammunition
12.07.2005

A shipment consisting of Zu-23-
2 and 4, ZP-39, DShK, B-10,
RPG-7 and small arms
20.07.2005

A shipment consisting of pistols
and AK-47
23.07.2005

180 AK-47, 70 PKM and
ammunition for small arms
03.08.2005

100 AK-47 and 40 PKM
06.08.2005

A shipment of AK-47 and RPG-7
06.08.2005

380 AK-47 and ammunition
13.08.2005

One of the biggest ever arrivals
of arms at the market. Route: via
Bossaso, Galkayo and
Beletweyne. Transaction for
several traders but principal is
Yusuf Garbood. See also
purchases immediately
afterwards by opposition

This shipment for traders at
Irtogte was ambushed in
Beletweyne

Arms imported to BAM by a
group of traders

Arms imported to BAM by a
group of traders such as Said
Kuulow, Qorshel and Abdi Said

Arrived via a port on the east
coast since President Yusuf
blocked Bossaso for BAM
traders

Imported to BAM

Imported to BAM via new route:
Galkayo and Beletweyne

Imported to BAM

Imported to BAM

Imported to BAM via Galkayo



42

S/2005/625

Garre clan representative 24 AK-47, 16 PKM
20.04.2005

Many AK-47
21.06.2005

Some AK-47
24.05.2005

60 AK-47 and 15 PKM
30.07.2005

22 AK-47, 8 PKM, 10 RPG-7
and ammunition for small arms
02.08.2005

Purchased the arms. The clan
fights the Marihaan sub-clan
over theft of cattle. El Wa’aq
area

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Owner of the company “Dun
Iyo Irbad”

1 Zu-23
21.04.2005

Purchased the arms for his sub-
clan (Saleeban), which is
fighting the Sa’ad sub-clan

Sheik Adaan Dheere 20 AK-47, 7 RPG
21.04.2005

Purchased the arms

Sheik Yusuf Mohamed Said
Indohaadde, warlord/
businessman and governor in
southern Somalia, associated
with Al Itihaad Al-Islaami

2 Zu-23 and a variety of
ammunition
27.02.2005

1 DShK and ammunition
13.03.2005

2 mortars and ammunition
17.03.2005

1 Dhuunshilke, 12 RPG-2 and
ammunition for Zu-23, B-10
and small arms
22.04.2005

80 pistols and a variety of
ammunition for Zu-23, DShK,
PKM, RPG-7, RPG-2 and
small arms, and load-bearing
equipment
25.04.2005

60 AK-47, 12 RPG-7, 4
120mm mortars, 1 DShK, 2 B-
10 and a variety of ammunition
07.05.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchases the arms through his
representative Mohamed
Hassan

Purchased the arms through his
representative Mohamed
Hassan

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through his
representative Mohamed
Hassan



43

S/2005/625

55 AK-47, 10 PKM, 16 RPG-7
and a variety of ammunition
18.05.2005

28 AK-47, 3 120mm mortars,
2 Dhuunshilke, 2 B-10, 11
RPG-2 and a variety of
ammunition
23.05.2005
Large quantity of ammunition
30.05.2005

1 Zu-23
31.05.2005

2 Dhuunshilke, 2 PKM, 1
RPG-2 and ammunition
05.06.2005

A variety of ammunition
14.06.2005

4 PKM, 6 RPG-2 and a variety
of ammunition
02.08.2005

1 Zu-23
09.08.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through his
representative Mohamed
Hassan

Purchased the ammunition at
Irtogte through his
representative for Habsade

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through his
representative Mohamed
Hassan

Purchased the arms for
Habsade

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Biyomaal clan representative 4 PKM and 2 Dhuunshilke
23.04.2005

Purchased the arms

Mohamed Deylaaf,
businessman

Ammunition worth $50,000
28.04.2005

5 PKM and 1 Zu-23
25.05.2005

1 Zu-23
06.07.2005

2 DShK and ammunition for
small arms
21.07.2005

1 DShK, 1 Sekawe (anti-
aircraft gun) and 2 B-10
24.07.2005

Purchased through his
company “Shirkadda Banaadir”
together with Bashir Rage and
Omar Adaan

Purchased the arms

Purchased through his
company “Shirkadda Banaadir”

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Aadan Saronsoor, ally of
Habsade

2 DShK
28.02.2005

Purchased the arms through
Salaad Ilka Weyne



44

S/2005/625

60 AK-47, 2 PKM, 10 RPG-7
and a variety of ammunition
07.03.2005

20 AK-47, 6 PKM, 1 DShK and
some ammunition
03.05.2005
2 DShK
09.06.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms through the
representative of Indohaadde,
Mohamed Hassan
Purchased the arms through the
representative of Indohaadde,
Mohamed Hassan

Sharia courts 24 PKM and 10 120mm mortars
02.03.2005

10 RPG-2, 5 RPG-7, 5 PKM
14.03.2005

14 PKM, 6 RPG-7, 4 80mm
mortars and ammunition for
anti-aircraft gun
10.05.2005

24 AK-47, 8 PKM, 2 DShK and
ammunition for small arms
19.05.2005

70 AK-47, 8 PKM and
ammunition for small arms,
RPG-7, DShK and Zu-23
21.05.2005

14 AK-47, 4 PKM, 8 RPG-2 and
ammunition for small arms,
DShK and RPG-7
04.06.2005

16 AK-47 and some ammunition
07.06.2005

1 DShK
14.06.2005

20 AK-47, 1 DShK and
ammunition
03.07.2005

12 RPG-2, 1 DShK and a variety
of ammunition
02.08.2005

Purchased the arms
from Yemen (arms-trading
network) via traders at BAM

Sharia court, south Mogadishu,
purchased the arms

Sharia court at Ifka Halane
purchased the arms

Sharia court at Ifka Halane and
Shirkole (Circola) (Mogadishu
area) purchased the arms

Sharia court at Ifka Halane and
Shirkole (Circola) (Mogadishu
area) purchased the arms

Sharia court at Ifka Halane
purchased the arms.

Sharia court at Shirkole
(Circola) purchased the arms

Sharia court at Warshadda
(Mogadishu area) purchased the
arms.

Sharia court at Ifka Halane
purchased the arms

Sharia court at Ifka Halane
purchased the arms



45

S/2005/625

24 AK-47, 4 PKM and a variety
of ammunition
10.08.2005

Sharia court at Ifka Halane
purchased the arms

Reymataan clan representative 2 mortars, 2 RPG-7 and
1 Dhuunshilke
03.03.2005

Purchased the arms. The clan
fights the Waesley sub-clan
around the El Ma’an area

Botan Ise Alin “Haaraan
Kunaar”,
Minister for Rehabilitation and
Training of Militias in TFG

1 DShK and some ammunition
02.05.2005

1 B-10, 2 mortars and some
ammunition
05.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Sheekhaal clan representative 50 AK-47, 8 PKM, 4 RPG-7, 50
hand grenades and a variety of
small arms
05.05.2005

Purchased the arms. The clan
fights the Tuni clan over
agricultural land around
Kismaayo area

Osman Hassan Ali “Atto”,
Minister for Public Works and
Housing in TFG

Ammunition and load-bearing
equipment
09.05.2005

50 AK-47, 10 PKM and a variety
of ammunition
11.05.2005

4 120mm mortars and 120 shells
for the 120mm mortar
25.05.2005

40 AK-47, 10 RPG-2 and
ammunition
09.07.2005

6 120mm mortars and a variety
of ammunition
18.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms together with
Qanyare and Muse Suudi for
Habsade

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Mahamud Hassan Ali Gaabow
“Adde”,
Governor of Banaadir region

4 PKM and ammunition
28.05.2005

22 AK-47, 4 PKM, 4 RPG-2,
1 DShK and a variety of small
arms ammunition
18.06.2005

Purchased the arms

Bought through his
representative Mohamed
Jimaale, who is also a broker at
Irtogte

Ibrahim Umar Sebrye
“Shaalwey”, former mayor of
Mogadishu

4 PKM and ammunition
29.05.2005

14 AK-47, 2 PKM and
ammunition
16.06.2005

Purchased the arms through a
broker, Usman Yusuf

Purchased the arms



46

S/2005/625

25 AK-47, 4 RPG-7 and a variety
of ammunition
13.07.2005

20 AK-47, 7 PKM and
ammunition for small arms
13.08.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Gaaljeel clan representative 50 AK-47, 11 RPG-7, 2 80mm
mortars and a variety of
ammunition
04.06.2005

Purchased the arms. The clan
fights the Jaleele clan
(Beletweyne area) over
livestock

Jaleele clan representative 25 AK-47, 2 Dhuunshilke,
6 PKM, 4 RPG-2 and
ammunition
07.06.2005

22 AK-47, 1 DShK and
ammunition for small arms
13.06.2005

Small arms and ammunition
21.06.2005

Purchased the arms. The clan
fights the Gaaljeel clan
(Beletweyne area) over
livestock

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Abdikadir Beebe, coordinator
of militia stationed in
Mogadishu

Ammunition, including for the
ZP-39, Zu-23, 80mm shells and
120mm shells
07.06.2005

1 B-10, 1 DShK and
ammunition
13.06.2005

20 AK-47, 2 DShK and a
variety of ammunition
05.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Mohamed Dheere, in control
of Jowhar

1 Zu-23 and 2 B-10
08.06.2005

1 Zu-23
25.07.2005

Purchased the arms through a
representative who brought the
arms to Jowhar. Purpose: to be
able to protect members of the
Government when they come
to Jowhar

Bartered small arms and mines
received from Ethiopia against
the Zu-23

Mohamed Jama Furuh,
Deputy Minister for Welfare for
Disabled and Orphans in TFG,
controls Mogadishu seaport

1 Dhuunshilke and 1 120mm
mortar
14.06.2005

1 Sekawe anti-aircraft gun
19.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms



47

S/2005/625

Abdi Qeybdiid,
former police chief, Banaadir
region, controls checkpoints
between Afgooye and Mogadishu

5 PKM, 1 B-10 and ammunition
20.06.2005

40 AK-47 and some ammunition
12.07.2005

18 AK-47, 4 RPG-7 and
2 mortars
01.08.2005

Purchased the arms through his
representative Abdi Iley

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Abdi Wiif, businessman, has
dhows with anti-aircraft guns
that protect traders in the sea

Some PKM, 2 DShK, 2 B-10
and a variety of ammunition
22.06.2005

Purchased the arms through his
representative Ali Yusuf

Aden Hashi Ayro,
leader “Jihadi”

2 PKM, 1 Dhuunshilke and a
variety of ammunition
23.06.2005

12 PKM and  5 RPG-2
03.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Abdirashid Ilqeyte,
businessman

1 DShK and ammunition
11.07.2005

18 AK-47 and 6 PKM
03.08.2005

Purchased the arms

Purchased the arms

Sheik Hassan Dahir Aweys,
leader Al Itihad al-Islaami

30 AK-47, 8 PKM and 10
RPG-7
13.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Rahaweyn clan
representative

50 AK-47, 4 PKM and 12
RPG-7
25.07.2005

Purchased the arms

Abdi Waal,
freelance militia leader

12 AK-47 and 2 PKM
06.08.2005

Purchased the arms



48

S/2005/625

Annex II
Response of the Government of Yemen to the
Monitoring Group

15 August 2005

The Permanent Representative of the Republic of Yemen to the United Nations
presents his compliments to the Coordinator of the Monitoring Group on Somalia of
the Security Council and has the honour to enclose herewith the answers of the
Government of the Republic of Yemen with regard to the questions raised by its
members (see attachments).



49

S/2005/625

Attachment I
Aircraft operations from Yemen to Bossaso

Date Flight number Plane

02/07/05
02/07/05

YAF 708
YAF 708

AN 26
AN 26

OYAA
DEP HCMF

ETA
1304

1007
FOR OYAA

04/07/05
04/07/05

YAF 1177
YAF 1178

AN 26
AN 26

OYAA/HCMF
HCMF/OYAA

ETA
ATD

0637
1029

06/07/05
06/07/05

YAF 1177
YAF 1178

AN 26
AN 26

OYAA/HCMF
HCMF/OYSN

ETA
ATD

0734
1023

10/07/05
10/07/05

YAF 616
YAF 616

AN 26
AN 26

OYAA/HCMF
HCMF/OYAA

ETA
ATD

0815
—

01/07/05
01/07/05

YAF 707
YAF 707

AN 26
AN 26

OYAA/HCMF
HCMF/OYAA

ETA
ATD

1015
1311

03/07/05
03/07/05

— NIL
— NIL

05/07/05
05/07/05

YAF 1177
YAF 1177

AN 26
AN 26

OYAA/HCMF
HCMF/OYAA

ETA
ATD

0812
1046

07/07/05
07/07/05

YAF 1177
YAF 1177

OYAA/HCMF
HCMF/OYAA

ETA
ATD

0913
1140

09/07/05
09/07/05

YAF 1177
YAF 1177

OYAA/HCMF
HCMF/OYAA

ETA
ATD

0824
1005



50

S/2005/625

Attachment II
[Original: Arabic]

Efforts by the Yemeni Government to stabilize the situation in Somalia

The unstable conditions in Somalia are a direct threat to the security and stability of the Republic of
Yemen, as they lead both to insecurity and to large-scale migration of Somalis to Yemen, which has
considerable adverse consequences.

Over the last decade the Yemeni Government has therefore followed a clear policy aimed at restoring
stability in Somalia, ending the civil war there and supporting the central Government.

Since the election of the present Government, Yemen has been pursuing this approach with a view to
supporting the legitimate Government of the country. In so doing, Yemen has received full backing from the
international community, including the European Union, the African Union and the United States of America.

Accordingly, the Yemeni Government, in response to a direct personal request from the new Somali
President, provided the requested aid with a view to strengthening the capacities of the legitimate Government.
The aid, which was transported to Bossaso airport on a number of flights, comprised:

- 15,000 uniforms for the Somali police;

- Food supplies for 5,000 people;

- 5,000 personal weapons.

The framework within which this aid was provided can be stated as follows:

1. The aid was supplied to and at the request of the legitimate elected Government, which has received
international endorsement;

2. Its aim was to enhance the capabilities of the police force and to strengthen security so that the President
can move to Mogadishu, the capital, to perform his official duties. This cannot happen unless the armed
bands are disarmed in favour of the legitimate Government;

3. The task of disarming those bands and consolidating the grip of the legitimate authority is a sine qua non
for combating terrorist hotbeds in Somalia.  It is consistent with the policies embraced by States all over the
world in the fight against terrorism and will ensure that no new Taliban emerges in Somalia.

Reinforcing security and stability in Somalia and strengthening the legitimate Government represent a
desideratum both for Yemen and for the international community.  Yemen has accordingly taken on this task,
notwithstanding the economic burden it entails, with a view to bringing an end to the deteriorated conditions in
Somalia. It trusts that the international community will appreciate and duly compensate it for those efforts.

Response to questions concerning the issue of the smuggling of weapons to Somalia

Reply to question 1

The facts

On the evening of Friday, 7 May 2004, the vessel (za`imah) “Al-Nasr” (No. 1184) was intercepted at a
distance of 70 miles from the Yemeni coast by a United States vessel belonging to the coalition forces.  The
following crew members, numbering seven in all, were on board:



51

S/2005/625

1. Abdullah Bakhwar;
2. Fu'ad Muhammad Muwawwadah;
3. Shu`ayb Bashu`ayb;
4. Ridwan Awad Salim;
5. Amr Al-Siba`i;
6. Yasir Faraj Hadhbul;
7. Qawri Muhammad Ahmad Yusif (a Somali national).

In addition, the following ordnance was found:

- 536 AK-47 rifles;
- 7 modified rifles;
- 2 medium-calibre 14.5 mm machine guns, plus 84 rounds of ammunition;
- 12,000 rounds of 30-mm ammunition;
- 1,239 AK-74 rifle ammunition cases;
- 34,770 rounds of 7.62 mm ammunition;
- A set of rifle belts and cleaning boxes;
- A radio communications set;
- A hand-held GPS unit;
- Documents and passports.

The arms and ammunition had been placed in sacks, of which there were 30 to 40.  The weapons were
impounded by the weapons officer of the United States vessel and subsequently handed over to the Yemeni
authorities.  The case was turned over to the Hadramawt Public Prosecutor's Office on 25 August 2004, along
with the 12 persons detained, i.e.:

1 Rushdi Muhammad Salih Ba`abbad 2 Ahmad Salim Salih Ba`abbad
3 Muhammad Sa`id Hadi Al-Aqari 4 Salmin Sa`id Abud Basunbul
5 Sa`id Salmin Basunbul 6 Fayiz Salim Salih Ba`abbad
7 Salih Awad Al-Tamuri 8 Majid Husayn Ali Butal`ah
9 Khalid Salih Ba`abbad 10 Salim Salih Muhammad Ba`abbad
11 Mabkhut Ali Hasan Qabi`i 12 Abdul Qadir Umar Ali Shaykh

The seven crew members of the vessel, whose names have already been mentioned, were also turned
over.  The members of the network have confessed to smuggling two earlier shipments prior to the one seized.

It is also apparent from the seizure report that other persons connected with smuggling remain fugitives
from justice.  The security authorities are continuing their efforts to capture them.  They are as follows:



52

S/2005/625

1 Abdul Rahman Abd Awad Al-Amiri 18 Abdul Qadir Al-Sumali
2 Abdi Hurqan (a Somali national) 19 Muhammad Sa`id
3 Afnille Ali Jabir (a Somali national) 20 Muhammad Shujja`
4 Abdullah Mubarak (a Somali national) 21 Muhammad Al-Tanzani
5 Zaki Abdul Hasan 22 Ali Zarzuri
6 Sa`d Qimam 23 Abdul Rahman Ali (a Tanzanian national)
7 Abdullah Abdullah (or Abud) 24 Mabkhut (an elderly male of unknown

identity)
8 Abdul Rahman Al-Qadri 25 Ahmad (born in Somalia)
9 Abdullah Yusuf Farih (a Somali national

who receives weapons in Somalia)
26 Majid Sakini

10 Muhammad Farih Barud (nicknamed the
Joker)

27 Ali Balah

11 Al-Mahjari (name unknown) 28 Ali Sarfi
12 Husayn (name unknown) 29 Atabah (name unknown)
13 Salih Ahmad Al-Bahsani 30 Abdullah Husayn
14 Abdul Husayn Al-Hadrami 31 Sabihi (name unknown)
15 Ayan (a Somali national) 32 Bamu’min (born in Somalia)
16 Shawqi Ba`abbad (brother of Rushdi

Ba`abbad)
33 Abdul Rahman Tuliji (a Tanzanian

national)
17 Abdi Al-Sumali 34 Ali Al-Dharafi (who supplies and sells

weapons to the band)

Reply to question 2

A. The modestly resourced Coastguard Department has partially achieved its intended goal of securing
Yemeni ports, in addition to carrying out patrol activities.  It has consequently been able to seize quantities of
drugs and reduce illegal infiltration into the Republic of Yemen by displaced persons from the Horn of Africa.
It has also seized quantities of drugs and weapons in cooperation with the naval forces and the coalition forces
present in the region.

B. Owing to their low income, it is difficult for fishermen to satisfy their essential everyday needs.  In
contrast, fishermen engaged in smuggling goods, weapons, drugs and human beings, inter alia, reap alluring
profits, and it is this that induces them to perpetrate such acts in violation of the law.

The situation in Somalia has led people to turn to illicit trade of this kind.  Moreover, the presence of a
large number of Somali refugees in our country facilitates the passage of such shipments without the
knowledge of the competent authorities.

Reply to question 3

There is no body that sponsors arms-smuggling from Yemen to Somalia, inasmuch as it is an offence
punishable by law.  Moreover, since, for the reasons previously stated, citizens have various light and medium
weapons in their possession and the Ministry of the Interior is the authority responsible for maintaining public
security, order, tranquillity and morality and for protecting lives, honour and property, that Ministry has sought
to curb the illicit arms-trafficking and smuggling through various means, as follows:



53

S/2005/625

I.  In the legal sphere

A bill amending the Arms Act has been tabled and is currently before the House of Representatives.
Through this bill, the Government is seeking to limit domestic arms trade and prevent the transfer of arms to
third States.

II.  In the maritime sphere

Using available resources, the Coastguard Department is engaged in securing the Yemeni coasts by
conducting marine patrols to check for any possible breaches occurring by sea.  It has endeavoured to expand
its activity by preparing a Department work plan for the years 2006-2007, with United States assistance and
expertise.  The aim is to develop the work of the Department to include the security aspects necessary for
securing part of the coastal strip in accordance with the Department's phased plan, as part of Yemen’s counter-
terrorism efforts.  This requires considerable material resources, which we are seeking to obtain through
support from friendly States, primarily the United States of America, inasmuch as Yemen is a partner in
combating terrorism.  An English-language copy of the Department plan is annexed hereto.

III.  On land

The first phase of the plan to collect medium and heavy weapons and ban their possession has been
implemented through the following:

(a) The purchase, from citizens, of dangerous weapons, including shoulder-fired missiles and medium and
light machine guns, to which end a total of 10 billion Yemeni riyals has been spent.  This affects the budget
earmarked for development, inasmuch it represents an additional burden on the State budget;

(b) Assistance from the United States of America in the purchase from citizens of certain dangerous weapons,
including shoulder-fired missiles, as well as the collection and destruction of a number of weapons under
the supervision of United States experts to ensure their lawful disposal;

(c) The preparation of the second phase of the weapons-collection plan, which comprises the following four
stages:

(i) Preparing for the weapons-collection process by gathering information on persons in possession of
weapons and determining the right time to implement the plan;

(ii) Establishing implementation programmes for the plan through:

- Determination of the weapons to be taken in and the appropriate amount of compensation for
each;

- Elaboration of information programmes that explain the importance of surrendering weapons,
considered as something uncivilized and a primary factor in the perpetration of most crimes;

- Issuance of a proclamation by the Ministry of the Interior calling on citizens to cooperate and
participate in the implementation of the weapons-collection plan, setting a schedule for
implementation and stating that immediately upon the expiration of the time limit set for the
voluntary surrender of weapons against the compensation fixed by the competent committee,
the Government will begin to carry out search and investigation procedures for weapons and
persons in possession of weapons and to apply the laws in force;

(iii) Commencing implementation in the field through tightened security measures at entry/exit points
and in coastal areas and other places where arms-smuggling offences are likely to be committed;



54

S/2005/625

(iv) Upon the expiry of the deadline, carrying out procedures for information-gathering on weapons
and procedures for confiscation conducted in coordination with the judicial authorities.

Inasmuch as all these aspects represent additional burdens that will affect development efforts, it is
essential to seek support for the implementation of this phase.  It is hoped that support will be forthcoming
from friendly nations, primarily the United States of America, inasmuch as the measures in question form part
of Yemen’s counter-terrorism efforts.



55

S/2005/625

Annex III
Flight details from Yemen to Bossaso (Somalia)

Date Flight number Airplane type Route Hours
01.07.2005
01.07.2005

YAF 707
YAF 707

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Aden

ETA  10.15
ATD 13.11

02.07.2005
02.07.2005

YAF 708
YAF 708

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Aden

ETA  10.07
ATD  13.04

04.07.2005
04.07.2005

YAF 1177
YAF 1178

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Aden

ETA  06.37
ATD  10.29

05.07.2005
05.07.2005

YAF 1177
YAF 1177

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Aden

ETA  08.12
ATD  10.46

06.07.2005
06.07.2005

YAF 1177
YAF 1178

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Sana’a

ETA   07.34
ATD  10.23

07.07.2005
07.07.2005

YAF 1177
YAF 1177

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Aden

ETA  09.13
ATD  11.40

09.07.2005
09.07.2005

YAF 1177
YAF 1177

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Aden

ETA  08.24
ATD  10.05

10.07.2005
10.07.2005

YAF 616
YAF 616

AN 26 Aden to Bossaso
Bossaso to Aden

ETA  08.15
ATD     -



56

S/2005/625

Annex IV
Sample sources of revenue

Individuals “Local administration”
area of control

Sources of revenuea

Muse Suudi “Yalahow” North Mogadishu, Balcad
district

Jezira airport and beach port

Mohamed Qanyare Afrah Daynile and Bermuda
districts of Mogadishu

Daynile airstrip and El Ma’an
seaport as shareholder

Bashir Rage North Mogadishu Isiley airstrip and El Ma’an seaport
as shareholder (head of exports)

Mohamed Omar Habeeb
Dheere

City of Jowhar, self-
declared “Governor” of
Middle Shabelle region

Tax on city businesses and entry
taxes

Colonel Barre Hirale City of Kismaayo, Lower
Juba region

Kismaayo airport and Kismaayo
seaport, charcoal export

Sheik Yusuf Mohamed Said
Indohaadde

Lower Shabelle, self-
declared “Governor” of
Lower Shabelle region

Revenue from Marka seaport and
Baraawe port, taxes on NGOs and
drug farms

a Airstrip: includes use tax, landing fee and passenger tax. Port: includes import, export and berthing taxes.



57

S/2005/625

Annex V
List of vessels attacked by pirates off the Somali coast in the
Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden

Date Vessel Remarks

1. 8 March 05 Yacht Mahadi Attempted boarding

2. 8 March 05 Yacht Gandalf Attempted boarding

3. 11 March 05 Great Luck Attempted boarding

4. 15 March 05 Honor Pescadores Attempted boarding

5. 15 March 05 NMT Silvia Attempted boarding

6. 16 March 05 OR. Sirichainava Ship and crew held hostage
Ship and crew rescued

7. 31 March 05 Trust Dubai Attempted boarding

8. 10 April 05 MV Timbuck Boarded by pirates
Crew overcame the pirates

9. 20 April 05 MV Feisty Gas Ship and crew held hostage
$315,000 paid for release

10. 26 June 05 MV Semlow Taken hostage
Demand for $500,000

11. 16 July 05 MV Hanseduo Fired upon

12. 16 July 05 MV Parana Fired upon

13. 17 July 05 RO RO Ship Fired upon

14. 18 July 05 Container Ship Fired upon

15. 21 July 05 JOLLY Marrone Attempted boarding

16. 21 July 05 Bulk Carrier Fired upon

17. 21 July 05 Cielo di Milano Fired upon

18. 26 July 05 Cielo di Milano Second attempted boarding



58

S/2005/625

Annex VI
Response of the Government of Ethiopia to the
Monitoring Group

7 September 2005

Dear Mr. Schiemsky,

I would like to recognize the receipt of your letter dated 29 August 2005,
which you sent in your capacity as Coordinator of the Monitoring Group established
pursuant to Security Council resolution 1558 (2004) concerning Somalia.

The Permanent Mission has consulted the relevant authorities in Ethiopia. The
authorities have confirmed to the Mission that the allegations are fully unfounded
and baseless.

Ethiopia, as a direct beneficiary of peace in Somalia, has absolutely no reason
to contribute to the country’s instability by injecting more arms into an area already
turned into an arms bazaar.

Ethiopia’s contribution to the peace process in Somalia, for the past 14 years,
speaks to Ethiopia’s commitment to Somalia’s stability.

The Permanent Mission will be very glad to have an opportunity to discuss the
issue with you.

(Signed) Teruneh Zenna
Ambassador

Chargé d’affaires a.i.



59

S/2005/625

Annex VII
Countries visited and representatives of Governments,
organizations and private entities interviewed

France

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Kenya

Government officials

Kenya Ministry of Defence (Navy)

State representatives

Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Interior of Somalia,
Hussein M. Aideed

Embassy of France

International organizations

Special Representative of the Secretary-General Francois Lonseny Fall
(United Nations Political Office for Somalia)

European Union, Delegation of the European Commission

United Nations Development Programme

Democratic Republic of the Congo Group of Experts (United Nations)

International Committee of the Red Cross

World Food Programme

Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations

Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator

International Civil Aviation Organization

International Maritime Organization

Others

Regional Centre on Small Arms and Light Weapons

Kenya Ports Authority

Kenya national focal point on illicit small arms and light weapons

Blue Bird Aviation

United Arab Emirates

Somali Financial Services Association, Dubai



60

S/2005/625

United States of America

State representatives

Permanent Representative of Somalia to the United Nations

Permanent Representative of Yemen to the United Nations

Permanent Mission of China to the United Nations

Permanent Mission of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland to the United Nations

Permanent Mission of the United States of America to the United Nations

Permanent Mission of France to the United Nations

International organizations

Al-Qaida/Taliban Monitoring Team (United Nations)

Yemen

Government officials

Minister of Interior

Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs


